=== PAGE 1 ===
The Digital 
SAT® Suite of 
Assessments Specifications Overview 
Summer 2022 

=== PAGE 2 ===
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 Contents 
1 Introduction – How to Use This Document 
2 Digital SAT Test Specifications at a Glance 
3 Taking the Digital SAT Suite Assessments 
3 Implementation timeline 
3 Devices 3 Internet connectivity and battery life 4 Digital testing application 4 Borrowing a device from College Board 
5 
Practice and Preparation 
5 Getting familiar with the digital testing application 
5 Preparing for the test 6 
Resources and Supports for Students with Disabilities 
7 Supports for English Learners (ELs) 
8 The Digital SAT Suite: What’s staying the same? 
9 The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments: What’s changing? 
9 Suite-level changes 9 Section-level changes 
10 Multistage adaptive testing 11 Section breakdown and timing 12 
Content Specifications 
12 Reading and Writing 12 Reading and Writing content domains 13 Math 14 Math content domains 16 
Scoring 
16 Vertical score scale 16 Benchmarks 17 Skills Insight 17 Score reports 18 Comparing scores from the current SAT to digital SAT 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 
ii 

=== PAGE 3 ===
 
  Introduction: How to Use 
This Document 
Beginning internationally in 2023, the SAT® Suite of Assessments will be delivered digitally. 
College Board has listened to input from our members, and we’re adapting to ensure we continue to meet the needs of all our stakeholders. 
While the transition to digital will bring a number of student- and educator-friendly changes, 
many important features of the SAT Suite will stay the same. The SAT Suite will continue to measure the knowledge and skills that students are learning in school and that matter most for college and career readiness. We’re not simply creating a digital version of the current paper and pencil tests—we’re taking full advantage of what digital testing makes possible. The digital SAT Suite will be easier to take, easier to give, more secure, and more relevant. 
This document provides an overview of what’s changing and what’s staying the same when 
we transition to a digital SAT Suite. It provides a summary of College Board’s Assessment Framework for the Digital SAT Suite, the full test specifications. 
This document isn’t intended as a technical manual for taking or administering the digital 
SAT Suite tests. Instead, it’s meant to help counselors, students, educators, and families understand what to expect when the SAT Suite goes digital. 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 
1 1 

=== PAGE 4 ===
 
  
 
 
 
  
 Digital SAT Suite Test 
Specifications at a Glance 
Table 1: Format and delivery details for the digital SAT Suite 
Category Reading and Writing (RW) Section Math Section 
Format Two-stage adaptive test design: 
one Reading and Writing section administered via two separately timed modules Two-stage adaptive test design: one Math section administered via two separately timed modules 
T est length (number of operational and pretest questions) 1st module: 25 operational questions and 2 pretest questions 
2nd module: 25 operational 
questions and 2 pretest questions 1st module: 20 operational questions and 2 pretest questions 
2nd module: 20 
operational questions and 2 pretest questions 
Time per stage 1st module: 32 minutes 
2nd module: 32 minutes 1st module: 35 minutes 2nd module: 35 minutes 
T otal number 
of questions 54 questions 44 questions 
T otal time allotted 64 minutes 70 minutes 
Scores reported T otal score 
RW and Math section scores 
Question type(s) used Discrete; four-option multiple-choice Discrete; four-option multiple-choice (≈75%) and student-produced response (SPR) (≈25%) 
Stimulus topics Literature, history/social studies, humanities, science Science, social science, real-world topics 
Informational graphics Y es; tables, bar graphs, line graphs Ye s 
Sample questions for the digital SAT are available in the Digital SAT Sample Questions and 
Answer Explanations document online. 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 2 2 

=== PAGE 5 ===
 
  Taking the Digital SAT 
Suite Assessments 
Implementation timeline 
We’ll make the transition from paper and pencil to digital at international test centers in the 
spring of 2023 and at U.S. schools and test centers in the spring of 2024. 
All students will take the PSAT™ 8/9 and PSAT/NMSQT® digitally starting in fall of 2023, 
followed by the digital PSAT™ 10 in spring of 2024. 
Most students who take the SAT for the first time do so in the spring of their junior (11th 
grade) year. For students testing internationally, those in the graduating class of 2024 will be the first to take the digital SAT. In the U.S., students in the graduating class of 2025 will be the first class to take the digital test. 
International PSAT -Related U.S. SAT and 
SAT Assessments SAT School Day 
Spring 2023 
Spring 2024 Fall 2023 
Paper and Pencil Digital 
Devices 
Students can take the digital SAT Suite tests on a wide range of devices, including their own laptops (Windows or MacOS), iPads, school-owned desktops and laptops, and school-managed Chromebooks. Students will take the digital SAT Suite using a custom-built digital testing application that they’ll download in advance of test day. 
Internet connectivity and battery life 
Students will connect to the test center’s or school’s internet to start and complete testing. The exam application has been built to withstand internet outages. If the internet connection drops during testing, students will still be able to progress through the test with no disruption. If a student’s computer battery runs down, they can simply plug in, restart their device, and pick up where they left off—all their work will be saved, and they won’t lose testing time. Students will be responsible for bringing their device fully charged on test day, as there may be limited access to power outlets in their testing room. 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 
3 3 

=== PAGE 6 ===
 
    
  Digital testing application 
The digital SAT Suite assessments will be administered on College Board's customized digital 
testing application. The application is a modified version of the one used to successfully deliver the 2021 digital AP® Exams. 
Creating our own custom-built app for the digital SAT Suite allows us to prioritize the features 
that matter most to students and educators. With a custom app, we’re also able to adapt more easily to changes in market needs and respond quickly to user feedback. The app will also easily integrate with other College Board and partner systems, creating a better experience for students and educators. 
The digital testing application will include many test tools for students. Examples include: 
§Mark for review: Students can flag and return to any question within a given test module 
they want to come back to later. 
§T esting timer: A clock counts down the time remaining in each module. Students can hide the timer, and they get an alert when 5 minutes remain in the module. 
§Calculator: A built-in graphing calculator is available on the entire Math section. (Students can also bring their own approved calculator.) 
§Reference sheet: On the Math section, students have access to a list of common formulas. 
§Annotation: Students can highlight any part of a question and leave themselves a note. 
Borrowing a device from College Board 
Students taking the SAT on a weekend who do not have access to a device can request to borrow one from College Board, and we’ll provide one for use on test day. This applies to students taking the SAT on the weekend internationally as well as in the United States. Students will request a device when they register for the SAT. More information about borrowing a device will be available when registration opens for the digital SAT in fall of 2022. 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 
4 4 

=== PAGE 7 ===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Practice and Preparation 
Below is a summary of resources useful for practicing and preparing for the digital SAT Suite 
tests, available starting in fall 2022. 
Getting familiar with the digital testing application 
Students preparing for the digital SAT Suite tests will have access to an exam app preview within the digital testing app. This tool helps students get familiar with the functionality of the digital testing application, acquaints them with the central features of the assessments, and lets them try a small number of sample Reading and Writing and Math questions. These sample questions will help test takers familiarize themselves with the kinds of questions they will encounter on test day and how to properly enter their answers. Students can try all the testing tools and see how the digital exams work with any assistive technology they may use. 
Preparing for the test 
Students taking the digital SAT Suite tests will have access to a wide range of free, high-quality test preparation resources. 
SAMPLE TEST QUESTIONS (WITH ANSWER EXPLANATIONS) 
These questions illustrate the range of skills and knowledge on the digital SAT Suite tests as well as the response formats used (multiple-choice and, for select Math questions, student-produced response). 
FULL-LENGTH ADAPTIVE DIGITAL SAT PRACTICE TEST FORMS 
Students can take full-length digital practice tests directly in the digital testing application, allowing them to get the full digital SAT Suite experience while familiarizing themselves with test content. Practice tests for the PSAT-related assessments will also be available starting in 2023. 
Full-length linear paper and pencil practice test forms are also available from College Board as 
downloadable PDFs. These forms are recommended only for students who will require paper-based accommodations on test day. 
OFFICIAL SAT PRACTICE ON KHAN ACADEMY 
Students can log on to Khan Academy® to practice with digital SAT test questions and receive feedback, including answer explanations. In addition to providing test preparation activities, Khan Academy offers students a range of high-quality skill and knowledge building activities, including numerous videos and articles that target specific areas where students might need additional support. 
TEST IMPLEMENTATION AND CLASSROOM PRACTICE GUIDES 
These resources, developed primarily for teachers, detail the design of the digital SAT Suite, offer guidance to educators looking to incorporate test preparation for the suite as part of their classroom duties, and provide information about evidence-based instructional best practices supporting college and career readiness for all students. 
SAT SUITE QUESTION BANK (SSQB) 
This tool, developed primarily for educators, allows teachers to search for and download sets of practice SAT Suite questions targeted to their lesson plans. T eachers can apply multiple filters to the question bank to find the kind of questions they want. The SSQB will be updated with digital SAT Suite content starting in early 2023. 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 
5 5 

=== PAGE 8 ===
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
    
 Resources and Supports 
for Students with 
Disabilities 
The digital SAT Suite will continue to offer students with disabilities the same range of 
accommodations available in the current paper-based suite. 
The following is a list of examples of accommodations commonly offered as part of the digital 
SAT Suite. Accommodations aren’t limited to those listed, as College Board considers any reasonable accommodation for any documented disability as long as a student qualifies for testing accommodations. The process for requesting accommodations will remain the same. 
§Timing and Scheduling 
wextended time: time and one-half (+50%), double time (+100%), more than double time (>+100%) 
wextra/extended breaks 
§Reading/Seeing T ext 
wtext to speech 
wbraille with raised line drawings, contracted 
§Recording Answers 
wwriter/scribe to record responses 
wbraille writer 
§Modified Setting 
wsmall-group setting 
wwheelchair accessibility 
§Other 
wpermission for food/drink/medication 
wpermission to test blood sugar 
wauditory amplification/FM system 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 
6 6 

=== PAGE 9 ===
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Supports for English 
Learners (ELs) 
College Board will continue to offer testing supports for English learners (EL) during SAT 
School Day, PSAT 10, and PSAT 8/9 administrations. These supports aren’t available for SAT Weekend administrations or for the PSAT/NMSQT. 
T esting supports include: 
§Translated test directions. 
§Use of bilingual word-to-word dictionaries. 
§Time and one-half (+50%) extended testing time. 
Students who meet the following criteria at the time of testing can use EL supports: 
§They’re enrolled in an elementary or secondary school in the United States or one of the 
U.S. territories. 
§They’re an English learner as defined by their state or by federal policy. 
§They use the same supports in class or for other assessments. 
More information about the availability of supports and the procedures for requesting them prior to testing can be found at satsuite.collegeboard.org/k12-educators/administration/sat-school-day/ordering/english-learner-supports. 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 
7 7 

=== PAGE 10 ===
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  The Digital SAT Suite: 
What’s staying the same? 
The digital SAT Suite will continue to measure the skills and knowledge that students are 
learning in school and that matter most for college and career readiness. The suite will continue to be scored on the same score scale as the paper and pencil tests they are replacing (for example, the SAT will continue to be scored on the familiar 400–1600 scale), and the SAT and PSAT-related assessments will continue to be linked through a vertical score scale that allows students and educators to meaningfully track growth across the suite. 
The two sections of the digital SAT Suite—(1) Reading and Writing and (2) Math—also 
measure largely similar knowledge and skills as their paper and pencil predecessors, including: 
§Use of reading/writing passages across a range of academic disciplines and text complexities. 
§Required demonstrations of command of evidence, both textual and quantitative. 
§Emphasis on high-utility words and phrases in context. 
§Focus on revising and editing writing to improve the effectiveness of expression, achieve specified rhetorical goals, and demonstrate command of core conventions of Standard English sentence structure, usage, and punctuation. 
§Continued focus on the math that matters most for college and career readiness and success. 
§Math problems in (and out of) context. 
§Use of both multiple-choice and student-produced response question formats in the Math section. 
College Board remains strongly committed to the validity and fairness of our assessments— ensuring that our tests measure what they’re intended to measure and that the tests afford an equal opportunity to all test takers to show their best work. As with the paper-based suite, test fairness considerations are at the foundation of the design, development, and administration of the digital SAT Suite. 
The digital SAT Suite will retain strong alignment to state academic standards. And while 
the digital SAT Suite will simplify the test-taking process and be an easier experience for students and educators, it will maintain the rigor of the current paper and pencil tests. 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 
8 8 

=== PAGE 11 ===
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  The Digital SAT Suite: 
What’s changing? 
While we’re preserving many important features of the SAT Suite, we’re not simply creating a 
digital version of the current paper and pencil tests. The digital SAT Suite tests will be more flexible exams that are easier to take, easier to give, more secure, and more relevant. 
Suite-level changes 
§The digital SAT Suite assessments are substantially shorter than their paper and pencil predecessors—lasting 2 hours and 14 minutes instead of 3 hours. 
§T est takers have more time, on average, to answer each question, meaning that, more so than ever before, the digital SAT Suite tests are measures of students’ skills and knowledge, not test-taking speed. 
§Students and educators will receive scores faster—in days instead of weeks. 
§In addition to the many ways that the current SAT Suite connects students to opportunities they’ve earned through their hard work, digital SAT Suite score reports will connect students to information and resources about local two-year colleges, workforce training programs, and career options. 
§The tests will be more secure. Currently, if one test form is compromised, it can mean canceling scores for whole groups of students. Going digital allows us to give every student a highly comparable but unique test form, so it will be practically impossible to share answers. 
§States, schools, and districts will have much more flexibility for administering SAT Suite tests. 
Section-level changes 
READING AND WRITING 
§The digital assessments have a single Reading and Writing section instead of separate Reading and Writing and Language T ests. This shift allows us to measure English language arts and content area literacy knowledge and skills more efficiently while acknowledging the reciprocal, mutually reinforcing nature of reading and writing skills and knowledge. 
§The digital SAT Reading and Writing section will feature many shorter passages instead of a few long texts, meaning students will see a wider range of topics that represent the kinds of works they’ll read in college. At the same time, these shorter passages maintain the level of rigor of longer reading passages in terms of text complexity and grounding in academic disciplines. 
§A single (discrete) question is associated with each passage (or passage pair) instead of having several questions associated with a small number of long passages. 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 
9 9 

=== PAGE 12 ===
 
  
  MATH 
§Calculators are allowed throughout the Math section. A single Math section replaces 
the separately timed no-calculator and calculator-allowed portions of the paper and pencil SAT Suite Math T ests. This change allows the Math section to more accurately reflect how calculators are used in schools and in the real world. It also eases test administration by eliminating separately timed test portions with different rules. Students may continue to use their own approved calculator on test day or take advantage of the graphing calculator built directly into the testing application. 
§The average length of in-context questions (“word problems”) has been reduced. In-context questions still serve a valuable role in the Math section, as they assess whether students can apply their math skills and knowledge to both academic and real-world situations. However, College Board has listened to feedback that longer contexts posed barriers that could inhibit some students, often but not only English learners, from demonstrating their core math achievement. 
Multistage adaptive testing 
The digital SAT Suite will utilize a multistage adaptive testing (MST) methodology. Adaptive testing has been used for large-scale digital standardized assessments for nearly 40 years. Being adaptive means we can fairly and accurately measure the same things with a shorter test while preserving test reliability. 
Figure 1: Digital SAT Suite Multistage Adaptive Testing Model 
Module 1 Module 2 
Students are given a targeted 
mix of questions of varying difficulties based on their performance in module 1. Students are given a broad mix of easy, medium, and hard questions. Student’s 
Score 
In a multistage adaptive SAT Suite test, each test section (Reading and Writing; Math) is 
divided into two equal-length and separately timed stages, each composed of a module of questions. As illustrated in figure 1, students begin each test section by answering the set of questions in the first module. This module contains a broad mix of easy, medium, and hard questions that allows students to demonstrate their achievement before moving on to the second module. The questions in this second module are broadly targeted to the test taker’s achievement level based on how they perform in the first module; questions are either (on average) higher difficulty or lower difficulty than questions in the first module. This means that the test “adapts” to present questions that are more appropriate to a student’s performance level. 
MST testing benefits students in several ways. First and foremost, it results in shorter 
tests that retain the precision and reliability of longer (linear) tests. This is because question difficulty in the second module of each section is personalized based on student performance in the first stage, resulting in a more efficient assessment and a more tailored experience for each student. Second, unlike in most question-by-question adaptive testing 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 
10 10 

=== PAGE 13 ===
models, students taking one of the digital SAT Suite tests can navigate freely through a given 
module’s questions, previewing upcoming questions or marking earlier questions to return to 
as time permits. 
Section breakdown and timing 
Each assessment in the digital SAT Suite is composed of two sections: Reading and Writing 
and Math. Students have 64 minutes to complete the Reading and Writing section and 70 minutes to complete the Math section. 
Each section is composed of two equal-length modules of test questions. Each Reading and 
Writing module lasts 32 minutes, while each Math module lasts 35 minutes. Each module is separately timed, and students can move backward and forward among questions in a given module before time runs out. When time runs out on the first module of each section, the test delivery platform moves students to the second module. When students complete the Reading and Writing section, they are moved to the Math section after a 10-minute break between the sections. A small number of indistinguishable, unscored items are included in each section to aid with the test development process. 
T otal testing time for the digital SAT Suite is 2 hours and 14 minutes for each assessment 
(SAT, PSAT/NMSQT, PSAT 10, and PSAT 8/9). 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 
11 11 

=== PAGE 14 ===
 
 
 
  Content Specifications 
Reading and Writing 
The Reading and Writing section of the digital SAT Suite assessments is designed to 
measure students’ attainment of critical college and career readiness in literacy. The section focuses on key elements of comprehension, rhetoric, and language use that the best available evidence identifies as necessary for college readiness and success. In this section, students answer multiple-choice questions requiring them to read, comprehend, and use information and ideas in texts; analyze the craft and structure of texts; revise texts to improve the rhetorical expression of ideas; and edit texts to conform to core conventions of Standard English. 
Reading and Writing content domains 
Questions on the Reading and Writing Section represent one of four content domains: 
§Craft and Structure: Measures the comprehension, vocabulary, analysis, synthesis, and reasoning skills and knowledge needed to understand and use high-utility words and phrases in context, evaluate texts rhetorically, and make connections between topically related texts 
§Information and Ideas: Measures comprehension, analysis, and reasoning skills and knowledge and the ability to locate, interpret, evaluate, and integrate information and ideas from texts and informational graphics (tables, bar graphs, and line graphs) 
§Standard English Conventions: Measures the ability to edit texts to conform to core conventions of Standard English sentence structure, usage, and punctuation 
§Expression of Ideas: Measures the ability to revise texts to improve the effectiveness of written expression and to meet specific rhetorical goals 
Questions from all four domains appear in each Reading and Writing test module, beginning with Craft and Structure questions and then continuing through Information and Ideas, Standard English Conventions, and Expression of Ideas questions. Questions within the Craft and Structure, Information and Ideas, and Expression of Ideas content domains that test similar skills and knowledge are grouped together to reduce the need for context switching and arranged from easiest to hardest. This makes it easier for students to budget their time and allows each test taker the best opportunity to show what they know and can do. Questions in the Standard English Conventions content domain are arranged from easiest to hardest regardless of which specific convention is being tested. T able 2 provides a breakdown of question distribution by content domain. 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 
12 12 

=== PAGE 15 ===
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 Table 2: Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Reading and Writing Section Content Domains 
and Question Distribution 
Content 
Domain Domain Description Skill/Knowledge T esting Points Operational Question Distribution 
Craft and 
Structure Students will use comprehension, vocabulary, analysis, synthesis, and reasoning skills and knowledge to understand and use high-utility words and phrases in context, evaluate texts rhetorically, and make connections between topically related texts. Words in Context 
T ext Structure 
and Purpos
e 
Cross-T ext Connections ≈28% / 13-15 questions 
Inf
ormation 
and Ideas Students will use comprehension, analysis, and reasoning skills and knowledge and the ability to locate, interpret, evaluate, and integrate information and ideas from texts and informational graphics. Central Ideas and Details 
Command of 
Evidence 
§
T extual 
§Quantitative 
Inferences ≈26% / 12-14 questions 
Standard English Conventions Students will use editing skills and knowledge to make text conform to core conventions of Standard English sentence structure, usage, and punctuation. Boundaries 
Form, Structure, 
and Sens
e ≈26% / 11-15 questions 
E
xpression of 
Ideas Students will use the ability to revise texts to improve the effectiveness of written expression and to meet specific rhetorical goals. Rhetorical Synthesis 
Transitions ≈20% / 
8-12 questions 
Math 
The Math section of the digital SAT Suite assessments is designed to measure students’ 
attainment of critical college and career readiness knowledge and skills in math. The digital SAT Suite Math section focuses on key elements of algebra, advanced math, problem-solving and data analysis, and geometry and trigonometry (except for the PSAT 8/9 which does not test trigonometry) that evidence identifies as necessary for college and career readiness and success. Over the course of the Math section, students answer multiple-choice and student-produced response (SPR) questions that measure their fluency with, understanding of, and ability to apply the math concepts, skills, and practices that are most essential for readiness for entry-level postsecondary work. 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 
13 13 

=== PAGE 16 ===
 
   
   
 
  
 Math content domains 
Questions on the Math section represent one of four content domains: 
§Algebra: Measures the ability to analyze, fluently solve, and create linear equations and 
inequalities as well as analyze and fluently solve equations and systems of equations using multiple techniques 
§Advanced Math: Measures skills and knowledge central for progression to more advanced math courses, including demonstrating an understanding of absolute value, quadratic, exponential, polynomial, rational, radical, and other nonlinear equations 
§Problem-Solving and Data Analysis: Measures the ability to apply quantitative reasoning about ratios, rates, and proportional relationships; understand and apply unit rate; and analyze and interpret one- and two-variable data 
§Geometry and Trigonometry (SAT , PSAT/NMSQT , PSAT 10)/Geometry (PSAT 8/9): Measures the ability to solve problems that focus on area and volume; angles, triangles, and trigonometry; and circles (NOTE: PSAT 8/9 doesn’t include trigonometry questions.) 
Questions from all four content domains appear in each test module. Across each module, questions are arranged from easiest to hardest, allowing each test taker the best opportunity to demonstrate what they know and can do. T able 3 provides an overview of the question distribution by content domain. 
Table 3: Digital SAT Math Section Content Domains and Question Distribution 
This table shows information for the SAT. Tables for the PSAT-related assessments are broadly similar and can be 
found in the full Assessment Framework document . 
Content 
Domain Domain Description Skill/Kno 
wledge 
T esting Points Operational Question Distribution 
Algebra Students will analyze, fluently 
solve, and create linear equations and inequalities as well as analyze and fluently solve equations and systems of equations using multiple techniques. Linear equations in one variable 
Linear equations 
in two variables 
Linear functions Systems of two 
linear equations in two variables 
Linear inequalities in 
one or two variables ≈35% / 13-15 questions 
Advanced Math Students will demonstrate the ability to progress to more advanced math courses, including demonstrating an understanding of absolute value, quadratic, exponential, polynomial, rational, radical, and other nonlinear equations. Equivalent expressions 
Nonlinear equations 
in one variable and systems of equations in two variables 
Nonlinear functions ≈35% / 
13-15 questions 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 14 14 

=== PAGE 17 ===
   
 
  
 Table 3: Digital SAT Math Section Content Domains and Question Distribution 
This table shows information for the SAT. Tables for the PSAT-related assessments are broadly similar and can be 
found in the full Assessment Framework document . 
Content 
Domain Domain Description Skill/Kno 
wledge 
T esting Points Operational Question Distribution 
Problem-
Solving and Data Analysis Students will apply quantitative reasoning about ratios, rates,and proportional relationships;understand and apply unitrate; and analyze and interpret one- and two-variable data. Ratios, rates, proportional relationships, and units 
Percentages One-variable data: 
distributions and measures of center and spread 
Two-variable 
data: models and scatterplots 
Probability and 
conditional probability 
Inference from 
sample statistics and margin of error 
Evaluating statistical 
claims: observational studies and experiments ≈15% / 5-7 questions 
Geometry and Trigonometry Students will solve problems that focus on area and volume; angles, triangles, and trigonometry; and circles. Area and volume 
Lines, angles, 
and triangles 
Right triangles and 
trigonometry 
Cir
cles ≈15% / 
5-7 questions 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 15 15 

=== PAGE 18 ===
  
 Scoring 
Each of the digital SAT Suite assessments yields three scores: a total score and two section 
scores. The total score is based on students’ performance on the entire assessment and is the arithmetic sum of the two section scores. Two section scores, one for Reading and Writing and the other for Math, are based on students’ performance on each section. 
NOTE: Subscores and cross-test scores will no longer be reported for the digital SAT Suite. 
Vertical score scale 
The assessments in the suite remain on a vertical score scale so that students and educators 
can meaningfully track growth over time. T able 4 details how the vertical scale works for the digital SAT Suite. 
Table 4: Digital SAT Suite Total Score and Section Score Scales 
T esting Program T otal Score Scale Section Score Scales 
PSAT 8/9 240–1440, in 10-point intervals 120–720, in 10-point intervals 
PSAT/NMSQT 
and PSAT 10 320–1520, in 10-point intervals 160–760, in 10-point intervals 
SAT 400–1600, in 10-point intervals 200–800, in 10-point intervals 
Benchmarks 
T o help students and educators better understand what scores mean and how to interpret 
progress toward college and career readiness over time, College Board has empirically established benchmark scores for PSAT 8/9, PSAT 10, PSAT/NMSQT, and the SAT. College and Career Readiness Benchmarks establish the points on the score scale at or above which students are considered college and career ready (i.e., have a high likelihood of succeeding in common entry-level credit-bearing postsecondary courses), while grade-level benchmarks help students and their families, teachers, and others track progress toward college and career readiness. 
T able 5 lists the benchmark scores for each assessment based on the age and attainment 
of the typical test-taking population(s). Note that because these scores are based on the performance of many students over many years, they are highly stable but also subject to occasional revision if and when test performance patterns change. We will continue to review and analyze performance data as cohorts of students take the digital SAT Suite. 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 
16 16 

=== PAGE 19 ===
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 Table 5: Digital SAT Suite Benchmarks, by Test Section and Testing Program 
SAT PSAT/NMSQT 
and PSAT 10
 PSAT 8/9 
Benchmark Score Reading 
and 
W
riting Math Reading 
and 
Writing Math Reading 
and 
Writing Math 
College and 
Career Readiness 480 530 
11th grade 460 510 
10th grade 430 480 
9th grade 410 450 
8th grade 390 430 
Skills Insight 
Skills Insight™ is a tool developed by College Board to help SAT Suite test users better 
understand the meaning of scores by describing the skill and knowledge attainment that 
these scores typically represent. 
The Skills Insight descriptors are vertically aligned so that they show progression in skill 
and knowledge attainment across successively higher score bands. Collectively, these descriptors provide more transparency around the meaning of scores in a different way than quantitative indicators such as benchmarks or percentile ranks. Skills Insight information will continue to be included in student score reports for the digital SAT Suite. 
Score reports 
The student score report is used by students, parents, and educators to better understand student scores on a digital SAT Suite test. The score report doesn’t just present students with their scores; it also helps them understand their own progress toward their postsecondary goals as well as how their scores compare to those of other students. In addition to scores, student reports include: 
§Performance growth across the SAT Suite. (Students will see how they are progressing between PSAT 8/9, PSAT/NMSQT and PSAT 10, and the SAT.) 
§Information on content areas and domains to help students pinpoint where to focus their practice to improve their score, with links to practice resources. 
§Score comparisons and percentile rankings for a variety of test taker populations, including the student’s school, district, and state as well as all test takers. 
§Progress toward established benchmarks. 
§National Merit Scholarship qualifying information (if they took the PSAT/NMSQT). 
§Opportunities to connect to resources for college planning (BigFuture®), scholarships (BigFuture Scholarships), Advanced Placement®, and Student Search Service
™. 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 17 17 

=== PAGE 20 ===
 
 Comparing scores from the current SAT to digital SAT 
T o facilitate the transition from the current SAT to the digital SAT, scores on the digital SAT 
will be statistically linked to scores on the current SAT through a series of studies conducted in 2022. The underlying linking methodology is essentially the same as that used in most assessment programs to equate alternate test forms over time. 
The digital SAT and paper and pencil SAT measure similar, but not identical, content, so a 
score on the paper and pencil test is not a perfect predictor of how a student would perform on the digital test (and vice versa). Directly linking the digital SAT to the current SAT will enable a variety of stakeholders to use both digital SAT scores and current SAT scores without the need for further conversions. 
View sample questions for the digital SAT 
in the Digital SAT Sample Questions and Answer Explanations document. 
© 2022 College Board. College Board, Advanced Placement, AP , BigFuture, SAT, and the acorn logo are registered trademarks of College 
Board. PSAT, Skills Insight, and Student Search Service are trademarks owned by College Board. PSAT/NMSQT is a registered trademark of College Board and National Merit Scholarship Corporation. All other marks are the property of their respective owners. Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org . 
Khan Academy is a registered trademark in the United States and other jurisdictions. 
The Digital SAT Suite of Assessments Specifications Overview 18 18 

