ACCOLADE (AKK-oh-lade) noun — an award, or praise
Sounds like: echo lad
Picture: A young boy is standing on the edge of a cliff, facing a vertical wall
of rock. He yells wonderful things about himself so that his voice echoes off
the wall and comes back to him.
Sentence: The film received accolades from both the critics and the general
public.
ACQUIESCENT (ak-wee-ESS-ent) adj — reluctantly agreeable;
compliant
Sounds like: agree yes cent
First: Go to COMPLACENT and get that picture in your mind, then come
back here.
Picture: The same penny seated on the bench. The children urge the penny
to play with them. He knows they will never give up, so he gives in and
quietly and reluctantly gets up to play.
Other forms: Acquiesce (verb); acquiescence (noun)
Sentence: Some employers insist on acquiescence and will fire anyone who
rebels.
ACRIMONY (AK-rih-mo-nee) noun — words or behavior filled with
harshness or anger
Looks like: acre money
Picture: Two neighboring farmers arguing over who owns a certain acre of
land.
Farmer 1: “This is my acre. You want it? Give me my money and it’s
yours!”
Farmer 2: “Your money? This is my land, you big, ugly, stupid farmer. Now
get out of here before I say something really acrimonious!”
Other forms: Acrimonious (adj); acrimoniously (adv)
Sentence: Unfortunately, divorce proceedings are often filled with
acrimony.
ADAMANT (ADD-um-ent) adj — refusing to change; stubborn,
unyielding
Looks like: a dam ant
Picture: A giant ant acting as a dam, blocking a stream. The other ants need
the water for their colony. “Come on,” they say, “get out of the way!” But
the large ant refuses to move.
Sentence: She was adamant that her son be home by midnight.
ADROIT (uh-DROYT) adj — skillful in physical activity, or in handling
difficult situations
Looks like: android, which is a human-like robot
Picture: An android playing basketball. He dribbles behind his back and
does reverse lay-ups with either hand. A reporter is impressed: “He has the
best skills I’ve ever seen. And he’s equally adroit at handling the media,
particularly concerning his use of illegal battery packs in the Olympics.”
Sentence: Her adroitness on the balance beam stunned the crowd.
ADVOCATE (AD-vuh-kate) verb — support; plead for; speak on behalf
of
Sounds like: ad for Kate
Picture: Kate is seeking her first job. She’s smart and well-educated, but has
no experience. Kate’s aunt, publisher of the local newspaper, has always
encouraged Kate. She begins running ads, telling the reader how talented
and reliable Kate is. “I strongly advocate your hiring her” says each ad.
Other forms: Advocate, advocacy (nouns)
Sentence: Lawyers advocate for their clients.
AFFABLE (AFF-uh-bull) adj — friendly; easygoing
Looks like: a fable
Think of: Aesop’s Fables. Picture Aesop, a Greek man who lived about 500
B.C. Imagine him as a friendly, outgoing person, standing in the center of
the village and greeting people as they pass by.
Other forms: Affability (noun); affably (adv)
Sentence: Most television news anchors appear to be affable, at least on the
air.
AFFIRMATION (aff-er-MAY-shun) noun — positive statement;
assertion; agreement
Sounds like: a firm Asian
Picture: A muscular man from the Orient being interviewed by a TV news
reporter. “We’ve heard,” says the reporter, “that you plan to break the world
weightlifting record by lifting a Toyota filled with Sumo wrestlers. Is this
true?” “Yes,” replies the Asian man. “And that includes a full tank of gas
and maps in the glove compartment.” Looking into the TV camera, the
reporter says, “Up until now it had been just another unfounded rumor. But
now we’ve received affirmation.”
Other forms: Affirm (verb); affirmative (adj); affirmatively (adv)
Sentence: The prime minister saw her re-election as an affirmation of her
policies.
ALIENATE (AIL-ee-uh-nate) verb — to push someone away, or cause
him to separate from people
Sounds like: Alien Nate
Picture: Nate, a Martian, is standing apart from a group of former Earthling
friends. One says, “We don’t want him around anymore. He’s weird. It’s
like he’s from another planet or something.”
Other forms: Alien, alienation (nouns)
Sentence: People who think they know everything often alienate their
friends.
ALOOF (uh-LOOF) adj — detached; apart; indifferent
Sounds like: a roof
Picture: Person on the roof of a house, refusing to even look at the people
below. He has completely removed himself from the group.
Sentence: He always sat alone, so people assumed he was aloof.
ALTRUISTIC (al-troo-ISS-tik) adj — unselfish; caring
Sounds like: Al True’s Wish Stick
Picture: A man named Al True has a “wish stick,” or magic wand. He uses it
to help people by giving them what they need. Other form: Altruism (noun)
Sentence: Most religions teach that altruism is good.
AMBIDEXTROUS (am-bee-DEX-truss) adj — able to use both hands
with equal skill
Sounds like: Bambi Dextrous
Picture: A baseball pitcher named Bambi Dextrous who pitches with both
hands at the same time.
Sentence: Juggling must be easier for people who are ambidextrous.
Connect with: Dexterity
AMBIGUOUS (am-BIG-yoo-uss) adj — unclear; vague; having several
possible interpretations
Sounds like: a big U.S.
Picture: Mother and son are standing at the front door. Son is about to leave
on a trip.
Mom: So where exactly are you going?
Son: Somewhere.
Mom: Somewhere where?
Son: Somewhere in the U.S.
Mom: You’re being very vague. It’s a big U.S. out there.
Other forms: Ambiguity (noun); ambiguously (adv)
Sentence: When questioned by police, the suspect gave ambiguous answers.
AMBIVALENCE (am-BIV-uh-lence) noun — indecision; feeling of being
pulled in two directions
Looks like: Val inside ambulance (ambiVALence)
Picture: Val is about to have a baby. She’s gone into labor while her
husband is at work. She’s called for an ambulance to take her to the
hospital, but now that she’s inside the ambulance she’s having second
thoughts about going without her husband: “Wait! Let’s give him a few
more minutes. No, we should go. I’m in labor. Okay, take me to the
hospital. No, wait! Maybe he’ll get here soon...”
Other forms: Ambivalent (adj); ambivalently (adv)
Sentence: The house had been in the family for generations, so they were
ambivalent about selling it.
AMELIORATE (uh-MEEL-ee-or-ate) verb — to make an unpleasant
situation better; to improve
Sounds like: a meteor ate
Picture: A house was overrun with two-headed snakes. Suddenly, a meteor
swooped down and gobbled up all the snakes. So a meteor ate the snakes
and improved the situation in the house.
Sentence: The terrible working conditions were ameliorated only by her
friendly co-workers.
AMITY (AM-ih-tee) noun — friendship
Sounds like: Emma tea
Picture: A lady named Emma who invites neighbors and passersby over to
her house for tea every day. Visitors are lined up at the front door, while a
steady stream of people holding teacups flows from the back door and spills
out onto the back lawn. A smiling Emma says, “I’m just trying to be
friendly.”
Connect with: Amicable (adj), amigo (Spanish)
Sentence: Complete amity among bordering nations is always difficult.
AMORPHOUS (ay-MORF-uss) adj — without form or shape
Sounds like: “Yay, more for us!”
Picture: A mother bringing her three children bowls of some shapeless food.
One of the kids says, “Yay, more for us!” One of the others says, “Yeah, but
more what?”
Sentence: Liquid water is amorphous; it always takes on the shape of its
container.
Connect with: Metamorphosis
ANALOGOUS (uh-NAHL-uh-guss) adj — similar
Sounds like: an alligator
Picture: Two alligators that look exactly alike.
Other form: Analogy (noun)
Sentence: A camera’s aperture is analogous to the pupil of the eye.
ANARCHY (AN-arr-kee) noun — a lack of order; chaos
Sounds like: an ark key
Picture: The animals on Noah’s Ark are running wild. Noah, standing on the
pier, has somehow been locked out. He’s yelling, “My key! Please,
someone give me an ark key! This is chaos!”
Other form: Anarchist (noun)
Sentence: Without laws and rules, there would be anarchy everywhere.
ANATHEMA (uh-NATH-a-ma) noun — a religious curse, or the thing or
person being cursed
Looks like: an anthem
Picture: A man who, many years ago, fled his native country because of the
cruel government in power there. Now, as an old man, he finds a record in
his attic. When he plays the record, he hears, for the first time in four
decades, the national anthem of his former home. The song reminds him of
the cruel dictator still in power and he spits on the record, cursing the
words, the dictator, and the entire government. The anthem is now
anathema to him.
Sentence: For many people in India, the killing of cows is anathema.
ANTAGONISTIC (an-tag-uh-NISS-tik) adj — in hostile competition;
opposing
Sounds like: ant tag on his stick
Picture: An ant holding a stick; on the stick hangs a tag that says, “I’ll fight
anybody, any time. How about right now?”
Other forms: Antagonist, antagonism (nouns); antagonize (verb)
Sentence: Political parties are often antagonistic toward each other.
ANTIQUATED (ANN-tih-quay-ted) adj — too old to be useful;
outdated; obsolete
Sounds like: Auntie Katie
Picture: A very, very old woman named Auntie Katie. She lives in an old
house with an old dog and old furniture. Every single thing in Auntie
Katie’s life is antiquated.
Connect with: Antique, antiquity (nouns)
Sentence: The wiring in some old houses is too antiquated to handle
modern appliances.
ANTITHESIS (ann-TITH-ih-sis) noun — opposite
Sounds like: anTEETHesis
Picture: The teeth in your mouth. For every tooth, there is an opposite tooth.
For example, for every upper tooth, there is a corresponding (opposite)
lower tooth.
Other form: Antithetical (adj)
Sentence: Ignorance is the antithesis of knowledge.
APATHY (APP-uh-thee) noun — lack of interest or concern
Sounds like: apple tree
Picture: George Washington’s father is questioning him about the cherry
tree that has been chopped down. Young George, arms folded, replies: “I
cannot tell a lie. I really don’t care who chopped down the cherry tree.”
Other form: Apathetic (adj)
Sentence: Many citizens are apathetic about elections and don’t bother to
vote.
APEX (AY-pex) noun — top; highest point; summit
Looks like: ape x
Picture: King Kong (the ape) climbing the Empire State Building. He’s
trying to get to a large letter “X” which is perched on top of the building’s
antenna (the highest point). As he climbs, he thinks to himself, “This will be
the apex of my career.”
Sentence: It took the mountain-climbers four days to reach the apex.
APPEASE (uh-PEEZ) verb — calm; pacify
Sounds like: peas
Picture: A young child who’s upset because he’s hungry. He calms down
when his mother gives him some peas (this requires a little extra
imagination). Or, just think of “please” or “a peace,” all of which sound like
appease and suggest its meaning.
Other form: Appeasement (noun)
Sentence: Management tried to appease the strikers with a small salary
increase.
ARBITRARY (ARR-bih-treh-ree) adj — selected by random choice and
without solid reason
Sounds like: our bee, Jerry
Picture: A giant glass tank called the Lost Bee Shelter. A young man is
looking into the tank at thousands of flying bees. He says to the attendant,
“I think that’s him. That’s our bee, Jerry.”
Other form: Arbitrarily (adv)
Sentence: Your selection of a seat in a nearly empty theater is somewhat
arbitrary.
ARCANE (ar-KANE) adj — secret; mysterious
Sounds like: our cane
Picture: A child sits at his grandparents’ dinner table. In the corner of the
room is a wooden cane with strange words and markings on it. When the
boy asks what it all means, his grandmother says mysteriously, “Oh, that’s
just our cane. Don’t worry about it. You wouldn’t understand anyway.”
Sentence: The walls of the pyramid were covered with arcane symbols.
ARCHAIC (arr-KAY-ik) adj — old; antiquated
Sounds like: our cake
Picture: A very old cake, covered with cobwebs. One person asks, “Where
did we get our cake?” The other person answers, “From Auntie Katie,
where else?” (See ANTIQUATED .)
Sentence: Many words and expressions used in the nineteenth century seem
archaic to us now.
ARROGANT (AHR-uh-gint) adj — acting superior, obnoxious, smug,
or rude
Looks like: arrow can’t
Picture: It’s the mid-1800s, somewhere in Oklahoma. A rifle salesman is
making a presentation to some Navaho Indians. “You’re still using those
bows and arrows for hunting?” he asks. “This rifle fires bullets. Do you
people know what bullets are?” The Navaho look at each other, annoyed but
patient. The salesman continues: “A bullet can take down a buffalo from
five hundred yards. An arrow can’t! A bullet can fly faster than a hawk. An
arrow can’t! And a bullet can be kept in your pocket or pouch. An arrow
can’t! You have to buy my rifles and bullets, because they’re better than
anything you’re using.”
Other forms: Arrogance (noun); arrogantly (adv)
Sentence: The trick is to be self-confident without being arrogant.
ARTICULATE (ar-TICK-u-let) adj — able to speak clearly and
effectively
Looks like: Artie Kool-Aid
Picture: A man named Artie holding a pitcher, giving a speech: “...and let
me assure you, dear fellows, that it would be a veritable impossibility for
me to be so eloquent without this extraordinary thirst-quenching
concoction, Kool-Aid.”
Other forms: Articulation (noun), articulate (verb)
Sentence: To be effective, a preacher must be articulate.
ASCENDANCE (uh-SEN-dence) noun — domination; controlling
power
Sounds like: a sun dance
Picture: This Indian tribe has been doing rain dances for many centuries.
But now it’s been raining for seven weeks and they need the sun to dry up
the water. So they create and perform a sun dance. After the dancers have
been performing for several minutes, the clouds disappear and the sun
comes out. The tribe, at least on this occasion, seems to have gained
ascendance over the sun.
Other forms: Ascendant (adj); ascendancy (noun)
Sentence: The dictator’s ascendance to power was sudden and unstoppable.
ASCETIC (uh-SET-ik) noun — person who rejects physical comfort and
luxury for self-discipline
Sounds like: acidic (containing a high level of acid)
Picture: A man of great religious faith has decided to leave his comfortable
life behind in order to reach a higher level of spiritual growth. He gives
away all of his possessions, including his house, donates his savings to
charity, and begins to walk across the desert. Many days later, his shoes
worn through and his clothes in tatters, he reaches the end of the desert and
finds himself at a gas station. A mechanic, recognizing the religious man’s
obvious need for a drink, offers him a cold can from the vending machine.
However, the man sees the soft drink as a luxury, an aspect of the physical
world no longer part of his life, and rejects it, choosing instead to drink
from a nearby bucket of battery acid. Surprised, the mechanic says, “Why,
that’s downright acidic!” “I think you mean ‘ascetic,’” says the religious
man, between sips.
Other forms: Ascetic (adj); asceticism (noun); ascetically (adv)
Sentence: Some religious leaders of the past believed the life of an ascetic
led to spiritual growth.
ASPERITY (uh-SPERR-ih-tee) adj — roughness; harshness; irritability
Sounds like: a spirit tea
Picture: A group of ghosts (spirits) meeting for their afternoon tea. One of
the spirits gets extremely agitated and angry after drinking his tea, and
begins yelling at his companions. (One of the other ghosts comments: “He
really needs to start drinking decaffeinated. This regular stuff just haunts
him.”)
Connect with: Aspersion (noun) — a defaming remark
Sentence: No matter how comfortable, everyone encounters asperity at
some time.
ASSAIL (uh-SAIL) verb — attack with words or force
Sounds like: a sail (or, a sale)
Picture: The husband comes home with another new sail for the boat. The
wife attacks: “What? You spent more money on that stupid boat? You
haven’t bought yourself a new shirt in six years, but the sailboat is always
right in style! What excuse do you have this time?” Husband: “It was on
sale.”
Other forms: Assailable (adj); assailant (noun)
Sentence: The university president was assailed for his apparently racist
remarks.
ASSIDUOUS (uh-SIJ-yoo-us) adj — persistent; hard-working; diligent;
attentive to detail
Sounds like: a Sid, U.S.
Picture: A devoted worker at the post office has noticed a letter sent from
overseas. The envelope is addressed simply, “Sid, U.S.” The worker,
determined to see that the letter is delivered to the right person, has
gathered every telephone directory in the country and is carefully going
through each one page-by-page, making a list of every Sid in the U.S. “A
Sid, U.S.,” he says. “If I’m persistent and pay close attention to detail, I’ll
find him. Or her.”
Other forms: Assiduousness (noun); assiduously (adv)
Sentence: Re-opening an old murder case requires the investigator to be
assiduous.
ASSUAGE (uh-SWAYJ) verb — relieve; ease; pacify
Sounds like: as wage
Picture: A fairy godmother appears to a man who is seated at a table piled
high with bills. The man is obviously miserable because he has no money.
The fairy offers to pay the man a salary (“as wage”) for the work he’s doing
in paying the bills! The man is thrilled, for she has assuaged his anxiety.
Sentence: Marvin bought his wife a DVD player to assuage her anger over
his remark about the cake.
ASTUTE (uh-STOOT) adj — wise; insightfully clever; shrewd
Sounds like: a stew
Picture: As his students prepare their dishes, the cooking teacher strolls
around the kitchen, peeking into each pot and casserole. He’s puzzled by
the contents of one stove-top pot, but after quickly scanning the ingredients,
he looks the young chef straight in the eye and says, “A stew.” And of
course, he’s right.
Other forms: Astutely (adv); astuteness (noun)
Sentence: Carol has an astute business sense.
ATROPHY (AH-troh-phee) verb — waste away; wither
Looks like: a trophy
Picture: A trophy with a figure on top. The figure’s arms or legs are melting.
(Note: The word atrophy usually refers to the way muscles waste away
when they haven’t been used.)
Sentence: Within a week after the accident, his muscles had begun to
atrophy.
AUDACIOUS (aw-DAY-shuss) adj — brazen; brash; nervy
Sounds like: all day shhh’s
Picture: A librarian, referring to a boy talking at a nearby table: “‘Shhhh,’ I
say, ‘please Shhhh,’ all day ‘Shhhh’s’ and he just keeps talking. What
brashness! What nerve! What audacity!” The boy turns to the librarian and
says, “Shhhh! I’m trying to read!”
Other forms: Audacity (noun); audaciously (adv)
Sentence: He had the audacity to demand a refund on pants he’d bought
two years ago.
AUGMENT (awg-MENT) verb — make larger; increase
Looks like: Aug. mint
Picture: The gardener has been trying to grow mint for months, with just a
few plants to show for her hard work. Then, on August 1st, she discovers
her entire backyard covered with mint. “Wow!” she says. “This Aug. mint is
quite an increase from the July mint!”
Other form: Augmentation (noun)
Sentence: Phyllis decided to augment her income by taking a second job.
AUSPICIOUS (aw-SPIH-shuss) adj — taking place under promising
conditions; likely to succeed
Sounds like: our space shoes
Picture: Two astronauts have just landed on the planet Neptune. Looking
out the window of their spaceship, they see that they are surrounded by a
frozen lake. In order to accomplish their mission, they must cross the ice
and return to the spaceship quickly. One astronaut thinks it’s going to be
very difficult. The other pulls out two pairs of special boots fitted with large
ice skate blades. “This will be easy,” he says. Then, gesturing to the boots,
“Our space shoes!”
Sentence: It was an auspicious beginning to the playoffs when the team
won the first two games.
AUSTERE (aw-STEER) adj — stern; plain; without luxuries
Sounds like: our steer
Picture: A rancher giving a tour of his ranch: “And this is our steer. He lives
in this simple barn, eats plain dry grass, and frowns a lot. We’re not sure
why.”
Other forms: Austerity (noun); austerely (adv)
Sentence: The dentist’s austere waiting room made children even more
nervous.
AVARICE (AH-ver-iss) noun — greed
Looks like: Ava rice
Picture: A woman named Ava seated at a table, her arms around a mound of
rice. She won’t share the rice with anyone. She’s greedy.
Sentence: Success can lead to either great generosity or avarice.
AVERSE (uh-VERSE) adj — feeling repelled; wanting to avoid
Looks exactly like: a verse
Picture: A young boy running from the classroom, screaming: “Poetry! I
can’t listen to poetry! Not even a verse!”
Note: Don’t confuse with “adverse,” which means unfavorable. Strong rains
produce adverse conditions for golf. A golfer may be averse to playing in
the rain.
Sentence: She was averse to having such a large party at her house.
BALEFUL (BAIL-full) adj — harmful; menacing
Sounds like: bale fall
Picture: Gigantic, heavy bales of hay falling from the sky. One of the bales
is about to fall onto someone.
Other form: Balefully (adv)
Sentence: A hungry wolf is a baleful sight to campers.
BANAL (ba-NAHL) adj — boring; trite; insipid
Looks like: ban Al
Picture: A club’s members want to keep Al from joining. “I say we ban Al,”
says one. “He’s boring.”
Other form: Banality (noun)
Sentence: The script was filled with banal and predictable scenes.
BEGUILE (be-GYLE) verb — to cheat or deceive, usually through
charm; to amuse
Sounds a little like: beg a while
Picture: Two children plotting to talk their parents into something. The
older child says to the younger, “Let’s try this. You go out there and beg a
while. They love when you do that. They think it’s cute. They’ll laugh,
they’ll say, ‘Come here and give us a hug, you cute thing,’ and then they’ll
say yes.”
Other forms: Beguiling (adj); beguilingly (adv)
Connect with: Guile, which means deceitful shrewdness.
Sentence: At first, she was beguiled by his charm and attention.
BELIE (be-LIE) verb — to give an impression that is the opposite of the
way things really are; to misrepresent
Looks like: bee lie
Picture: A scientist is studying the daily routines of a bumble bee, keeping
careful records of what the bee does and when. Like all bees, this one is
energetic and hard-working, but also like other bees, this one enjoys a good
practical joke. Every day at one o’clock in the afternoon, the bee lies down
on a tiny toy couch in the scientist’s office and pretends to watch All My
Children. The scientist, of course, is surprised by the bee’s behavior and
notes it each day in his journal: “Every day at one, the bee lies down on the
couch and watches television. Where is the industrious busy bee we’ve all
heard about?”
Sentence: Her calm manner belied a fierce ambition.
BELLIGERENT (buh-LIJ-er-int) adj — having a strong tendency to
argue and fight
Sounds like: bell ledger rent
Picture: The landlord is standing at your door, holding his rent ledger and
ringing a large bell. By the time you open the door, he’s rung the bell three
more times. “Where’s your rent?” he asks angrily, waving his ledger in the
air. “It was due an hour ago. I’m going to stand here and ring this bell and
wave this ledger until I have your rent. And if you don’t like it, you can just
step outside and I’ll punch you so hard you won’t remember to say ouch.
Come on out here, you miserable lowlife deadbeat!”
Other forms: Belligerence (noun); belligerently (adv)
Note: The root “belli” has to do with fighting or war. Connect this word
with “bellicose,” which has almost the same meaning.
Sentence: The angry customer’s belligerence made it hard for the
saleswoman to remain polite.
BENEDICTION (ben-neh-DIK-shun) noun — good wishes; a blessing
Sounds like: Benedict shine
Picture: Benedict, who always says good and encouraging things to people,
so that they come away from him shining with happiness. Note: Any word
beginning with the prefix “bene-” has a positive meaning, and usually refers
to a good result (or bene fit).
Sentence: The minister delivered a benediction before the ceremony.
BENEVOLENT (beh-NEV-oh-lent) adj — kindhearted; good-natured;
generous
Sounds like: Ben Elephant
Picture: A kindly old elephant named Ben who lives at the zoo. He saves the
peanuts that visitors give him and takes them to the other animals late at
night. “That Ben Elephant,” says one bear to another, “what a nice guy!”
Other forms: Benevolence (noun); benevolently (adv)
Sentence: Miserable and greedy for most of his life, the man became
benevolent during his last years.
BENIGN (beh-NINE) adj — gentle; kind-hearted; mild
Sounds like: be nine
Picture: A machine that measures a person’s kindness level. Its meter ranges
from 1 to 9, with 9 designated as “extremely kind and gentle.” A girl places
the electrode helmet on her head, pulls the lever, and prays, “Oh, I hope I’m
a nine! Be nine! Please be nine!”
Other form: Benignly (adv)
Sentence: Albert had a reputation for being a bully, but deep down he was a
benign soul.
BEQUEATH (be-KWEETH) verb — to leave behind or hand down
through a will; transmit
Rhymes with: beneath
Picture: The reading of a will. “...And to my son, Robert, who always
thought my possessions were beneath him, I bequeath something that is
beneath him: the rug on the floor in this room.”
Other forms: Bequeathal, bequest (nouns)
Sentence: Many people bequeath large sums of money to their favorite
charities.
BLIGHT (BLITE) noun — decay; disease; widespread death
Looks like: B light
Picture: An entire orchard of fruit trees has died. A scientist hired to study
the situation concludes: “The problem is too much B-light. B-light is that
part of the light spectrum emitted by car headlights. These trees were too
close to the road, and the headlights wiped them out.”
Sentence: When a main crop is hit with blight, widespread famine may
result.
BOLSTER (BOLE-ster) verb — to support; to reinforce
Sounds like: bowl stir
Picture: A mixing bowl, filled with cake batter, is talking to the wooden
spoon: “Come on spoon, stir that batter. I know you can do it!” (The batter
joins in: “Hey, you’re really bolstering the spoon’s confidence! This cake
may just pan out after all!”)
Sentence: Nancy’s goal of a scholarship was bolstered by an unexpected A
in Biology.
BOMBAST (BOMM-bast) noun — speech or writing intended to
impress the audience; pompous
Sounds like: bomb blast
Picture: A convention of scientists who specialize in explosives. The
speaker is talking about his latest discovery: “Ladies and gentlemen,
without bragging I must tell you that this invention will change the world.
My bomb fits in the palm of the hand, yet one such device produces a blast
that can destroy all of North America and rattle teacups in London. It is,
probably, the greatest single advance in the history of mankind, if I may say
so...”
Other form: Bombastic (adj)
Sentence: The newcomer’s bombast offended the town’s more mildmannered residents.
BREVITY (BREV-uh-tee) noun — briefness; conciseness
Sounds like: Bravo Tea
Picture: Tea that takes just a few seconds to make. Also, when people drink
Bravo Tea, they say what they have to say in very few words. It gives them
the gift of brevity.
Sentence: Employers are busy people, so brevity is important in a resume.
BUMPTIOUS (BUMP-shuss) adj — pushy; obnoxiously self-assertive
Sounds like: bump chess
Picture: A man and woman are playing chess. The man is annoying, pushy,
and rude. Whenever he captures one of his opponent’s pieces, he bumps it
off the board and yells out, “Bump chess! I love this game! And I really
love winning!”
Sentence: The bumptious car salesman scared customers away.
CACOPHONY (kuh-KAH-fuh-nee) noun — harshness of sound;
opposite of harmony
Looks like: a combination of “cocoon” and “symphony”
Picture: A cocoon hanging from the branch of a tree. Inside, a caterpillar on
his way to becoming a butterfly has decided to make good use of the time
by learning to play the violin. On this particular day, the caterpillar is
playing an entire symphony, although not very well. Outside, birds and
squirrels are covering their ears, trying to escape the cacophony coming
from the cocoon.
Other form: Cacophonous (adj) Note: The root “phone” has to do with
sound, as in “telephone.”
Sentence: New visitors to the rainforest are struck by the cacophony.
CAJOLE (cuh-JOLE) verb — to fool with flattery or false promises;
coax; deceive
Sounds like: cage hole
Picture: A large cat sits outside a parakeet’s cage. The cage has a small hole
at the top. Inside, a parakeet is perched on a swing. “You have the most
beautiful feathers,” says the cat. “The colors are magnificent. Why don’t
you squeeze out through that hole so I can get a better look at you?”
Other forms: Cajolery, cajolement (nouns)
Sentence: The con-artist cajoled them out of their money.
CANDOR (CANNED-er) noun — honesty; frankness
Looks like: can door
Picture: A door on stage. The door is trying out for a dance job. The
producer, a tin can, is delivering the bad news with as much honesty as
possible.
Other forms: Candid (adj); candidly (adv)
Sentence: Political candor is refreshing.
CAPACIOUS (cuh-PAY-shuss) adj — large; roomy; spacious
Sounds like: car patients
Picture: A doctor who uses a car as her office. She explains: “This car has
an incredible amount of space inside. The front seat is a waiting area and
the back seat has three separate examining rooms.”
Other forms: Capaciousness (noun)
Sentence: He needed a capacious apartment for his stuffed moose
collection.
CAPITULATE (kuh-PITCH-oo-late) verb — surrender; yield
Looks like: capital late
Picture: The government of a small nation has just been overthrown by a
neighboring country. In the capital city of the overthrown nation, the
president is speaking with his military commander, who has just arrived
with troops. “I’m sorry,” he says, “but you got here too late. I was forced to
surrender.”
Other form: Capitulation (noun)
Sentence: The police refused to capitulate to the demands of the kidnapper.
CAPRICIOUS (cuh-PREE-shuss) adj — unpredictable
Looks like: cap riches
Picture: A man standing in front of a slot machine in a casino. He puts a
quarter into the slot, pulls the handle, and holds his cap under the chute,
waiting hopefully for his riches. He doesn’t know if or when it will happen,
but he’s sure it could happen.
Other forms: Capriciously (adv); caprice (noun)
Sentence: It’s hard to plan a vacation when the weather can be so
capricious.
CASTIGATE (CASS-tig-ate) verb — scold; punish
Sounds like: curse the gate
Picture: Someone scolding a gate.
Synonyms: Admonish, berate, censure, chasten, chastise, denounce,
disparage, objurgate, rebuke, reprimand, reprove, upbraid.
Sentence: The angry judge castigated the lawyer.
CAUSTIC (CAWSE-tik) adj — burning, either with chemicals or
sarcasm
Sounds like: caw stick
Picture: A crow crying (“caw, caw”) because it has been burned by a stick
coated with acid.
Sentence: The teacher’s caustic criticism embarrassed his student.
CELERITY (seh-LEHR-ih-tee) noun — speed
Looks like: celery
Picture: A stalk of celery moving at high speed. The celery might be in the
form of a race car zooming around the track.
Connect with: Accelerate.
Sentence: Drivers stuck in traffic may dream of celerity.
CENSURE (SEN-shur) verb — to criticize
Sounds like: send ashore
Picture: A man wading to shore from a large sailing ship. He is the
navigator of the ship, and has been sent ashore by the captain and the rest of
the crew because they blame him for getting them lost at sea. They have
sent him to ask directions. As he walks, they shout at him from the ship:
“You couldn’t find your way across a bathtub!” “Try not to miss the beach!”
Note: Don’t confuse with “censor,” which means “to delete objectionable
material.”
Sentence: The newspaper editorial censured the governor for her budget
proposals.
CHASTEN (CHAY-sen) verb — punish; discipline; castigate
Sounds like: chase sin
Picture: An old-fashioned, religious mother who is trying to discipline her
mischievous son: “I’ll keep scolding and punishing until I’ve chased the sin
right out of you!”
Connect with: Chastise. Don’t confuse with “chaste,” which means “pure.”
Sentence: Harshly chastened by his owner, the dog hid under the porch for
three days.
CHASTISE (CHASS-tize) verb — scold; punish; castigate
Sounds like: chase ties
Picture: The same man who yelled at the gate (see CASTIGATE ) is now
chasing ties around the yard, scolding them.
Sentence: Roberta chastised her son for his low grades.
CHOLER (KAH-ler) noun — anger
Sounds like: collar
Picture: A dog who’s angry about the ridiculous collar he has to wear.
Other form: Choleric (adj)
Sentence: Frustration and choler swept through the prison population.
CIRCUMSCRIBE (SIR-kum-skribe) verb — draw a line around; define
limits; confine; restrict
Looks like: circus crib
Picture: The baby elephant is headed for a career in the circus, but she has a
lot to learn. Her trainer puts the elephant in a baby crib and places the crib
inside one of the circus rings. The elephant may climb out of the crib, but
may not go outside the circle. Her movements have been circumscribed.
Other forms: Circumscribable (adj); circumscription (noun)
Note: The prefix “circum” means “around.” Think about the following
words, and look up the ones you don’t know: circumcise, circumference,
circumlocution, circumnavigate, circumspect, circumvent.
Sentence: The movements of a fish in an aquarium are circumscribed by the
size of the tank.
CIRCUMSPECT (SIR-kum-spekt) adj — cautious
Sounds like: search inspect
Picture: The chipmunk peeks out from her home — a hole in the trunk of a
hollow tree. She must go out for food, but before leaving the safety of her
tree, she carefully and methodically looks around (searches and inspects) to
see if a predator is waiting to snatch her.
Other form: Circumspection (noun)
Sentence: In some situations, it’s wiser to be circumspect rather than bold.
CLEMENCY (KLEM-en-see) noun — mercy
Sounds like: clam in sea
Picture: A clam as judge presiding over an undersea courtroom. The
defendant is a mussel accused of fixing races at the snail track. Judge: “The
maximum sentence for this crime is one weekend on a dry beach filled with
small children and biology teachers. But it’s your first offense, so I’ll show
clemency. I hereby sentence you to eight hours of voluntary service
working with oil spill survivors.”
Other form: Clement (adj)
Sentence: The remorseful defendant begged the judge for clemency.
CLOISTER (CLOY-ster) noun — secluded or isolated from the outside
world; also, a place of seclusion
Sounds like: closed oyster
Picture: A giant closed oyster. Someone is hiding inside the shell.
Sentence: During the trial, the jury remained cloistered in a motel.
COALESCE (KO-uh-less) verb — unite; grow together
Sounds like : coal S
Picture: A man puts some charcoal into his barbecue grill, throws in a
match, and goes into the house. When he returns, he sees that the coals have
come together to form a large letter “S” at the bottom of the grill. “Wow,
when they say it makes a Super Fire, they aren’t kidding!”
Other forms: Coalescent (adj); coalescence (noun)
Sentence: Astronomers believe stars coalesce from huge clouds of gas.
COERCE (ko-ERSE) verb — to force someone by threatening or
physically overpowering him
Sounds like: course
Picture: A young Army private has to run an obstacle course, which requires
him to climb a flaming wall, swim across a pond filled with alligators, and
run through a field of rattlesnakes. He’s reluctant to run the course, but his
sergeant forces him with threats of physical harm, verbal abuse, isolation,
double shifts in the mess hall, and courtmartial.
Other forms: Coercion (noun); coercive (adj); coercively (adv)
Sentence: Steve tried to coerce his younger brother into mowing the lawn.
COMPLACENT (kum-PLAY-sent) adj — self-satisfied; unconcerned
Sounds like: come play, cent
Picture: A penny sits on a park bench. Two small children call to him,
“Come play, Cent!” But the penny, smiling, hands behind head, eyes closed,
is too self-satisfied to move from the bench.
Other forms: Complacence, complacency (nouns)
Sentence: When facing a less-talented opponent, it’s easy to grow
complacent and blow a big game.
COMPLIANT (kum-PLY-ent) adj — following someone else’s demands;
conforming; obeying
Looks almost exactly like: complaint
Picture: The man working in the complaint department of a store has put up
a sign over his desk that says, “COMPLAINT.” His boss has walked by
nine or ten times, and each time has told the man to change the spelling to
“COMPLIANT.” Even though he knows it’s incorrect, the employee gives
in and makes the change. So now he works directly under a sign that says,
“COMPLIANT.”
Other forms: Compliance (noun); comply (verb)
Sentence: Employers who are domineering usually try to hire compliant
people.
COMPOSURE (kum-POE-zher) noun — calmness; equanimity
Sounds like: Camp Pozer
Picture: A summer camp, called Camp Pozer, where the counselors and
campers lie down all day long. Everyone is always calm and relaxed.
Awards are given out for the longest naps.
Other form: Compose (verb)
Sentence: The bride tried to maintain her composure as the wedding cake
fell onto the dance floor.
CONCEDE (kun-SEED) verb — admit reluctantly; yield
Sounds like: corn seed
Picture: Two farmers. One, examining something under a magnifying glass,
admits that it is corn seed.
Other form: Concession (noun) (A concession speech is one in which the
loser of an election reluctantly admits that his or her opponent has won.)
Sentence: The boss had to concede that it was his assistant’s idea.
CONCISE (kun-SISE) adj — short and to the point; terse
Sounds like: Kahn’s Ice
Picture: A company, called “Kahn’s Ice,” that sells and delivers blocks of
ice. The slogan on their truck is “Cold.”
Other forms: Conciseness (noun); concisely (adv)
Sentence: Phil read the concise note from his wife: “Leave. Now.”
CONCUR (kun-KERR) verb — agree
Sounds like: can curl
Picture: Two hairstylists discussing a customer’s hair. “I believe it can curl,”
says one. The other concurs, or agrees.
Other form: Concurrence (noun)
Sentence: Scientists do not concur on what caused the dinosaurs to die out.
CONDONE (kun-DONE) verb — to overlook, excuse, or pardon
Looks like: condo one
Picture: The owner of a condominium complex is showing her brother
around. At condo one, he notices that the tenants have covered the outside
of the building with multi-colored aluminum siding, placed a huge neon
sign that flashes “We’re number 1!” in the living room window, and
trimmed the shrubs to look like characters from Gilligan’s Island. When he
asks why she would condone these changes, she replies, “They pay their
rent.”
Note: Don’t confuse with “condemn,” which means “to criticize.”
Sentence: It’s hard to condone such rude behavior.
CONFOUND (kon-FOUND) verb — to mix up (in your own mind); or,
to confuse someone else
Sounds like: gun found
Picture: A detective investigating a murder. The victim was found in a
windowless room, the door locked from the inside. The murder weapon, a
gun, is found inside a locked cabinet, along with the keys to both the door
and the cabinet itself. “I’m confounded,” admits the bewildered detective.
Sentence: Magicians confound their audiences with a lot of distracting
movement.
CONSONANCE (KON-so-nence) noun — a blending of sounds or
opinions; harmony; agreement
Sounds exactly like: consonants
Picture: Three consonants from the alphabet — C, K, and Q — are having
lunch together. “As far as I’m concerned,” says C, “we’re in complete
agreement. We’re all making the same sounds.”
Other form: Consonant (adj)
Sentence: A committee starts out with many differing ideas, but tries to
work toward consonance.
CONSUMMATE (KON-soo-mate) verb — to complete or make whole
Looks like: consume mate
Picture: Black widow spiders have a bizarre end to their mating ritual. After
mating is complete, the female actually consumes (eats) the male. Imagine
that the male and female come to this agreement beforehand. They shake
(consummating the deal), then after consummating the mating ritual, the
female consumes her mate (consummating this really disgusting law of
nature).
Other forms: Consummation (noun); consummate (adj) Note: As an
adjective, “consummate” (KON-soo-met) means “perfect” or “highlyskilled.”
Sentence: They consummated the successful meeting with a lavish banquet.
CONTEND (kun-TEND) verb — to argue a point or position; or, to
struggle for
Sounds like: can’t end
Picture: A football team, losing 118 to 0. In the locker room at halftime, the
captain speaks up: “We’ve fought back all year and it can’t end here. If
we’re to be contenders , we can’t give up!”
Other forms: Contention (noun); contentious (adj)
Sentence: The driver tried to contend that the stop sign was hidden by the
tree.
CONTINGENT (kun-TIN-jent) adj — dependent upon other
circumstances; conditional
Sounds like: can tin gent
Picture: A man made of tin cans. A friend asks if he’s planning to play in the
golf tournament next weekend. “It depends,” says the can tin gent. “If it’s
sunny, I’ll be there. If it rains, I definitely won’t. I haven’t played in ten
years, so I’m rusty enough already.”
Other form: Contingency (noun); contingently (adv)
Sentence: His release from jail was contingent upon his promise to show up
in court.
CONTRACT (kun-TRAKT) verb — squeeze together; shrink
Looks exactly like: contract (KON-trakt) — a legal document
Picture: Two businesspeople are making a deal of some kind. After they
each sign the contract, the document begins to shrink, as if the paper it’s
written on is being compressed. Says one of the signers, “I thought this deal
would allow me to expand, but it appears as though it will be just the
opposite.”
Other forms: Contraction (noun); contractible (adj)
Sentence: Most matter contracts when it freezes; however, water expands.
CONTRITE (kun-TRITE) adj — sorry; penitent
Sounds like: canned trout
Picture: A large, overfed cat has been discovered in the pantry after he’s
opened and devoured twelve cans of trout. As his owner hovers angrily over
him, the cat appears to be sorry; his face and body seem to be saying, “I
promise, I’ll never do this again.” (The dog of the house watches from a
corner of the room and thinks, “I wonder if the cat would teach me how to
use that can opener.”)
Other form: Contrition (noun)
Sentence: Genuinely contrite, Debbie confessed to eating all the doughnuts.
CONUNDRUM (kah-NUN-drum) noun — riddle; mystery
Looks like: cone and drum
Picture: A man playing the drum, but instead of drumsticks, he’s using ice
cream cones. An observer asks: “How does he play music with those
things?” A second observer: “It’s a mystery to me.”
Sentence: The more scientists learn about the universe, the more of a
conundrum it appears to be.
CONVERGE (kun-VERJ) verb — move together to meet at a common
point
Sounds like: can merge
Picture: Two separate highways have been re-routed so that the cars can
merge into one flow of traffic. These roads now converge.
Other forms: Convergence (noun); convergent (adj)
Sentence: Parallel lines never converge.
CONVICTION (kun-VIK-shun) noun — an opinion that is strongly held
Sounds like: convict Shawn
Picture: You’re part of a jury working on the trial of a man named Shawn.
The prosecutor is addressing his opening remarks to the jury: “I believe
with all my heart that Shawn is guilty. I know he committed this terrible
crime. When you see the evidence, you’ll also be sure. And you will convict
Shawn.”
Sentence: Betty held to her convictions, despite the pressure from her
colleagues.
CONVIVIAL (kun-VIV-ee-yul) adj — fond of parties; sociable
Looks like: can Vivian
Sounds (a little) like: carnival
Picture: The director from CANDOR. His sister Vivian (also a can) has just
opened her own carnival. Can Vivian is the perfect host, because she’s so
festive and outgoing. She greets every guest at the front gate and introduces
them to other visitors.
Other forms: Conviviality (noun); convivially (adv)
Sentence: It can be stressful when one member of a couple is convivial and
the other is a loner.
COPIOUS (KO-pee-us) adj — in large quantity; abundant
Sounds like: copy us
Picture: A classroom with three teachers at the blackboard. Each is filling
his or her board with notes. One says to the students, “Copy us. You’ll have
copious notes by the end of this course!”
Other form: Copiousness (noun)
Connect with: Cornucopia
Sentence: It was a lavish party with copious food and drink.
CORDIAL (KOR-jil) adj — friendly; welcoming; gracious
Sounds like: cord Jill
Picture: A girl named Jill who stands at the post office and hands out cord to
customers in case they need to tie up packages. She is known to everyone as
the warmest, friendliest person in town.
Other forms: Cordiality (noun); cordially (adv)
Sentence: We’d heard she was a grouch, so we were surprised by her
cordial welcome.
CORPOREAL (kor-POR-ee-ul) adj — having to do with the body or the
physical world
Looks like: corporal
Picture: An Army corporal has become known on the base for his addiction
to physical fitness. He is constantly doing push-ups and sit-ups, jogging, or
lifting weights. When asked why he spends so much time exercising, the
corporal explains that “the body is the most important part of a person and
it must be kept in perfect condition.” When the corporal is invited by
friends to attend a religious ceremony, he responds, “Sorry, but I have no
interest in the spirit or the soul or any of those religious ideas. Just the body.
I’m going to lift weights all day today.”
Other forms: Corporealness (noun); corporeally (adv)
Connect with: Corporation (a body of people), corpse (a dead body), and
corpulent (having a large, overweight body)
Sentence: If there are ghosts, how do they interact with the corporeal
world?
CORROBORATE (ker-OBB-er-ate) verb — support with evidence; tell
the same story; confirm
Sounds like: co-robber eight
Picture: Eight people have been arrested and brought to trial for the same
robbery. One by one, each of the eight “co-robbers” testifies on the witness
stand, carefully answering the prosecutor’s questions in exactly the same
way the previous person did. So each corroborates the testimony of the
others.
Other forms: Corroboration (noun); corroborative (adj) Note: Usually used
to describe courtroom testimony or evidence. Don’t confuse with
“collaborate.”
Sentence: Scientists continue to find evidence that corroborates Einstein’s
theories.
CRITERIA (cry-TEER-ee-uh) noun — requirements or standards used
to make a decision
Sounds like: cry tearier
Picture: The director is advising an actress who is trying out for a role in the
show: “When you get to the part where you find out your horse has died,
you must cry tearier. We’re using this scene to make our decision about who
gets the part, and the more tears, the better your chances.”
Other form: Criterion (singular)
Sentence: There must be many criteria for selecting astronauts who will
travel to Mars.
CRYPTIC (KRIP-tik) adj — hidden; secret; mysterious
Sounds like: crypt tack
Think of: Crypt means tomb or underground vault. Imagine someone
looking around above ground for a tack, but she can’t find it because it’s
buried in the crypt. She holds a piece of paper that says: “Don’t bother
looking for the tack — it’s below you.” “Hmmm,” she thinks, “that’s a
pretty cryptic message.”
Sentence: The directions on the map are cryptic, which may be why nobody
has found the treasure.
CULPABLE
(CULP-uh-bull) adj — guilty; blameworthy
Sounds like: gulpable
Picture: A boy has done something wrong and is being questioned by his
mother. He swallows hard, making a “gulp” sound.
Other form: Culpability (noun) Connect with: Culprit
Sentence: Found to be culpable, he was fined.
CUPIDITY (cue-PID-ih-tee) noun — greed, especially for money
Looks like: cupid
Picture: Cupid using his bow and arrow to hold up a bank.
Sentence: The burglar returned to the house for more, and his cupidity is
what got him caught.
CURSORY (KERR-sir-ee) adj — quickly and incompletely done;
superficial
Looks like: curse sorry
Picture: A witch who’d changed a woman’s husband into a cocker spaniel.
Touched by the wife’s woeful pleas, the witch admits feeling bad about
inflicting the curse, and agrees to change the husband back into a man. But
in her haste she doesn’t complete the job: he’s still half dog.
Sentence: Pressed for time, the captain conducted a cursory inspection.
DAUNTED (DAWN-ted) adj — dismayed; disheartened; discouraged
(made less courageous)
Sounds like: dawn Ted
Picture: Ted is trying to cross the desert. When he awakens at dawn and
looks around, he realizes he’d been walking in circles all night. Now he’s
about to give up his effort. “I was undaunted,” Ted says to himself, “and
then came the dawn.”
Other forms: Daunt (verb); dauntless, daunting (adj); dauntlessly (adv)
Sentence: Reaching the South Pole was a daunting challenge for many
explorers.
DECADENCE (DEK-uh-dents) noun — moral decay or decline
Sounds like: deck of dance
Picture: Two very conservative ladies aboard a cruise ship. They’re
discussing what goes on down on the dance deck. “It’s disgusting,” says
one. “They get drunk and they dance all night...” “They’re animals,” says
the other. “That’s all I can say. They’re morally-corrupt, filthy, and
decadent.”
Other forms: Decadent (adj); decadently (adv)
NOTE: Don’t be fooled by the fact that many restaurants like to describe
their desserts as “decadent.” This word does NOT mean delicious,
wonderful, or anything positive.
Sentence: Some historians attribute the fall of the Roman Empire to internal
decadence.
DEFAME (de-FAME) verb — to say things harmful to a person’s
reputation; malign; vilify
Sounds like: the frame
Think of: A very valuable picture frame that had been stored at a fine art
museum. When the frame disappears, the guilty museum curator tells
everyone the cleaning lady stole it, and that she’s been stealing from the
museum for years. He is defaming her.
Other forms: Defamation (noun); defamatory (adj)
Sentence: The man was defamed by the accusations of criminal conduct.
DEFERENCE (DEFF-er-ense) noun — the act of yielding to someone
else out of respect
Sounds like: deafer ants
Picture: A family of ants arriving at a music hall. All the ants in this family
have trouble with their hearing, but the grandparents are nearly deaf. The
younger members of the family, acknowledging that the grandparents are
deafer, allow them to sit in the front, closest to the musicians.
Other forms: Defer (verb); deferential (adj)
Sentence: In deference to his boss, Milton refused to take credit for the
discovery.
DENOUNCE (dee-NOWNCE) verb — criticize; condemn
Sounds like: dean ounce
Picture: A short, thin college dean, named Dean Ounce, who criticizes
everything and everyone at his school. He yells at students: “You’re all lazy
and dumb and a disgrace to this institution.” One of the students says to
another, “Pound-for-pound, Dean Ounce is the most critical dean we’ve
ever had.”
Other form: Denunciation (noun)
Sentence: The president denounced the hostile actions of his country’s
closest ally.
DEPLETED (dee-PLEET-id) verb — emptied; drained; used up
Sounds like: the pleated
Picture: Saleswoman to a customer who is looking through a rack of pants.
“I’m sorry,” she says, “the pleated ones are all gone.”
Other form: Depletion (noun); depletable (adj)
Sentence: The epidemic became a medical emergency when supplies of the
antibiotic were depleted.
DEPLORE (dee-PLOR) verb — to express regret or disapproval;
complain; criticize
Sounds like: deep lure
Picture: Two fish in the ocean, discussing a fisherman’s baited hook. First
fish: “Pathetic. We’re five hundred feet down and we have to look at plastic
worms? Why would anyone use such deep lures, anyway?” Second fish: “I
guess they’re just not interested in those shallow fish that live upstairs.”
Other form: Deplorable (adj)
Sentence: Visitors deplored the terrible conditions in which local residents
were living.
DEPRECATE (DEPP-rah-kate) verb — disapprove; belittle
Sounds like: Debra Kate
Picture: Debra Kate, Dean Ounce’s sister (see DENOUNCE ). Debra Kate
is the headmistress at a girls’ boarding school. She is very strict and oldfashioned. Like her brother, she believes her role is to express disapproval,
and she always lets her students know how unhappy she is with them.
Other form: Deprecatory (adj)
Note: Don’t confuse with “depreciate,” which has to do with lowering the
value of something.
Sentence: People liked his self-deprecating sense of humor
t
Picture: A man with a very large collection of antique spoons. He sits
holding a dented spoon in one hand, his face buried in the other as he cries
to his wife.
Other form: Despondency (noun)
Sentence: After the fire, Sam was despondent for days.
DESPOT (DESS-pot) noun — tyrant
Looks like: desk pot
Picture: A pot standing on a desk, proclaiming to be in complete power.
Other forms: Despotism (noun); despotic (adj)
Sentence: After assuming control, he turned into a despot.
DESTITUTE (DESS-tih-toot) adj — poor; lacking possessions
Sounds like: dusty tooth
Picture: A man so poor that he has only one tooth left (he can’t afford dental
care). And even that one tooth is dusty, because he doesn’t own a
toothbrush.
Other form: Destitution (noun)
Sentence: In order to qualify for the scholarship, you had to be almost
destitute.
DESULTORY (DESS-ul-tor-ee) adj — lacking a plan; aimless
Sounds like: this dull story
Picture: The father of the groom has gone up to the microphone to toast the
newlyweds. As he begins to speak, the groom says, “Oh no, not this dull
story! He just rambles on and on. He doesn’t even think about what he
wants to say until he gets up there!” (The father begins: “Ladies and
gentlemen. Friends and family. Guests. Waiters and waitresses. Thank you
for sharing this special day with us. You know, when my son was eleven,
some things happened. I don’t necessarily know what they are, or even
think they have much to do with this very special day. And now that he has
taken a bride, I often wonder...”
Other form: Desultoriness (noun)
Sentence: The team leader’s desultory approach to the project frustrated
everyone.
DEXTERITY (dex-TERR-ih-tee) noun — high level of skill, especially
with the hands; adroitness
Sounds like: Decks Terry
Picture: A magician named Terry who is so skillful with cards that he’s
known as “Decks Terry.” (Some say he can shuffle a deck of cards while
they’re still in the box.)
Other form: Dexterous (adj) Connect with: Ambidextrous
Sentence: My grandmother’s dexterity helped her produce beautiful quilts.
DIATRIBE (DIE-a-tribe) noun — a bitterly critical speech
Sounds like: dye a tribe
Picture: The chief is enraged, screaming at a man who has dyed the entire
tribe green.
Sentence: When something went wrong, he went into a diatribe.
DIGRESS (dye-GRESS) verb — to move away from the main topic
when writing or speaking; to go off on a tangent
Sounds like: die grass
Picture: The guest speaker at the American Lawn Club’s annual convention.
The speaker’s topic is “How to Bring Dead Grass Back to Life.” Just a few
minutes into his talk, while discussing the problem of dead grass under the
barbecue grill, the lecturer begins to tell his audience about a really fun
cookout he went to when he was visiting his sister in Arkansas, and the
great recipe she gave him for shish kebab, and how his brother-in-law,
Mark, cheated at Monopoly, and...
Other form: Digression (noun)
Sentence: In writing, if you digress from the main point for too long, you
may lose your reader.
DILATORY (DILL-uh-torr-ee) adj — causing lateness; stalling
Looks like: delay story
Picture: A little girl who doesn’t want to go to the dentist. She starts to tell
her mother a long story about her day at school. Her mother says, “This is
just a ‘delay story’ because you want us to be late.”
Sentence: His dilatory actions caused them to miss their plane.
DISCERNING (dih-SURR-ning) adj — insightful; perceptive
Sounds like: this urn Ning
Picture: Two archeologists digging at a site in China. They uncover a vase,
or urn, and one of the archeologists begins to describe it after a very brief
examination: “This urn? Ning. That is, it’s from the Ning Dynasty. It’s easy
to tell. See this pattern of dragon’s teeth along the bottom? That’s
distinctive of Ning. Also, the color and shape of the handles are clues that
this urn is from the Ning Dynasty.” The second archeologist adds, “Also, it
says right here on the bottom, ‘Made during the Ning Dynasty.’”
Other forms: Discern (verb); discernible (adj)
Sentence: She has a discerning nature, which allows her to understand her
clients on a deep level.
DISCLOSE (diss-KLOZE) verb — provide information; reveal
Sounds like: this close
Picture: Two corporate chairmen are in a meeting. A vice president of one
of the companies comes out of the meeting to talk secretly with waiting
reporters. Holding two fingers a quarter-inch apart, he whispers, “They’re
this close to making the deal.” Then he says, “But you didn’t hear that from
me .”
Other form: Disclosure (noun) Sentence: Sue disclosed more to the stranger
than she’d intended.
DISCORD (DISS-kord) noun — disagreement; dissonance
Sounds like: this chord
Picture: Four people listening to music and trying to decide what a certain
chord is. They all have different opinions. “This chord is C,” says one. “No,
it isn’t,” says another, “this chord is F...”
Other forms: Discordant (adj); discordantly (adv)
Sentence: A certain amount of discord is expected within every family.
DISCOURSE (DISS-korse) noun — exchange of ideas; conversation
Sounds like: this course
Picture: A college professor, on the first day of class, explaining what the
course will be about. “This course is called, ‘On the Nature of Talk.’ We
will explore the history of conversation. We will study videotapes of people
talking. We will discuss the art of discussion. All tests will be oral. And I
will insist on plenty of talking in class, because this course is about
discourse.”
Sentence: We anticipated a heated debate, but the discourse remained civil.
DISDAIN (diss-DANE) noun — a feeling of scorn or contempt
Sounds like: this stain
Picture: Person who refuses to help others remove a stain (he’s above that
sort of work).
Other forms: Disdain (verb); disdainful (adj)
Sentence: Ethel loved her son, but treated his wife with disdain.
DISPARAGE (dis-PAHR-ij) verb — say negative things; belittle
Sounds like: this asparagus
Picture: Two vegetable farmers stand along a fence looking over to the
other side, where a third farmer is loading his asparagus crop onto a truck.
They are ridiculing him for the small asparagus he’s grown. “Asparagus?”
asks one. “I thought it was string beans!”
Other forms: Disparaging (adj); disparagingly (adv)
Note: Don’t confuse with “disparate.”
Sentence: No one likes to hear disparaging remarks (at least about
themselves).
DISPARATE (dis-PAHR-et) adj — different
Sounds like: this parrot
Picture: A pet shop owner explaining to a customer, “This parrot is different
from this parrot.”
Other forms: Disparity (noun); disparately (adv)
Sentence: Most cities contain disparate ethnic groups.
DISPERSE (dis-PERSE) verb — spread around; scatter
Sounds like: this purse
Picture: A woman taking candy from her purse and throwing it to eagerly
awaiting children.
Other form: Dispersion (noun)
Note: Don’t confuse with “disburse,” which means “to pay out.”
Sentence: The police used tear gas to disperse the crowd.
DISSENT (dis-SENT) verb — to disagree, especially with the majority,
or with an authority
Sounds like: this scent
Picture: A crowd gathered in the capital of an unknown country. The king
has just announced a “national scent” to go along with the national flag and
national flower. The scent is lemon, and government workers have begun
spraying the entire country with furniture polish. Many in the crowd
disagree with the decision, holding up signs that say, “This scent is a
lemon.”
Other forms: Dissent, dissension (nouns)
Sentence: Totalitarian forms of government do not tolerate much dissent
among their citizens.
DISSOLUTION (dis-so-LOOSH-un) noun — separation into parts; the
process of dissolving
Sounds like: this solution
Picture: A chemist comes into the lab with a beaker of liquid. “This
solution,” she says, “must be separated into two parts.” Then she pours half
into one flask and half into another.
Other form: Dissolve (verb)
Sentence: Another way of saying divorce is “dissolution of marriage.”
DISTENDED (dis-TEND-ed) adj — swollen; extended
Sounds like: this tendon (a tendon connects muscle to bone)
Picture: A man and woman are playing tennis. The match is several hours
old when the man approaches the net with a sad face and an elbow swollen
to seven times its normal size. “Sorry, but I have to stop. It’s this tendon. It
swells up every time I play.”
Other forms: Distend (verb); distension (noun)
Sentence: The toxins had greatly distended the man’s body.
DIVERGENCE (dye-VERR-jence) noun — the act of splitting off into
different directions
Sounds like: diver gents
Picture: Two gentlemen diving from the same diving board, but in different
directions. (Onlooker: “We’re likely to get diverging accounts of this dive
from the judges.”)
Other forms: Diverge (verb); divergent (adj)
Sentence: A divergence of opinion ended their friendship.
DOGMATIC (dawg-MAT-ik) adj — sticking to long-held beliefs, even
when faced with contrary evidence; closed-minded
Sounds like: dog medic
Picture: A medic (military doctor) arguing with a dog. The medic is
insisting that there is no scientific proof that dogs can talk. The dog replies,
“I think you’re ignoring some important evidence.”
Other forms: Dogma, dogmatism (nouns)
Sentence: Religious dogma must somehow allow for social change.
DIVERSE (dye-VERSE) adj — different; various
Sounds like: dye furs
Picture: The father rabbit has dyed his seven children different colors. He
explains to his wife: “I dyed their fur so they all look different. Now we can
tell them apart.”
Other form: Diversity (noun)
Sentence: Many colleges are looking for well-rounded applicants with
diverse experiences.
DOLEFUL (DOLE-full) adj — extremely sad
Sounds like: doll full
Think of: Doll full of tears. Picture a doll that cries and has a very sad
expression.
Connect with: Dolorous, doldrums, and condolences
Sentence: Her doleful eyes told the story of a difficult life.
ECLECTIC (ee-KLEK-tik) adj — choosing from many different
sources; carefully selective
Looks like: electric
Picture: Two women talking in the kitchen. The visitor notices bills from six
different electric companies for the same month. She asks about it. Her
friend explains: “I like the electric heat I get from Eastwest Utilities, but I
think the electricity from Superior Power is better for cooking. The lights
are a little brighter since I started using Con Everyone Electric & Gas. And
it just seems that the refrigerator keeps things colder with Central
Illuminating. And then there’s the hair dryer, and the VCR...”
Other form: Eclecticism (noun)
Sentence: An eclectic reader enjoys many different writing styles and
subjects.
ECCENTRIC (ek-SEN-trik) adj — different from most, especially in
personality or behavior
Sounds like: accent Rick
Picture: An old man named Rick who sits in a rocking chair on the sidewalk
in front of his house and speaks in a different accent every five minutes.
(The neighbors think he’s a little weird.)
Other form: Eccentricity (noun) Sentence: Alice was eccentric, but
everyone loved her odd ways.
EFFACE (ee-FACE) verb — erase
Sounds like: the face, and rhymes with erase
Picture: A penny that has been worn from use, so that Lincoln’s face has
been erased.
Note: Don’t confuse with deface, which means to mar or disfigure.
Sentence: All signs of poverty and suffering were effaced before the queen’s
visit.
EFFERVESCENCE (eff-er-VEH-sense) noun — the quality of being
bubbly or full of life
Sounds like: ever pheasants
Picture: A large field surrounded by trees. The field is crowded with
pheasants who are running around singing, dancing, and blowing enormous
bubbles with those gigantic plastic rings and pans of soap suds. Two
beavers look on, one saying to the other, “Ah, pheasants, ever pheasants. So
bubbly. So full of life... Well, let’s get back to work.”
Other form: Effervescent (adj)
Sentence: She’d had little acting experience, but her effervescence got her
the part.
EFFICACY (EF-ih-kuh-see) noun — the ability to produce desired
results
Sounds like: Effie can see
Picture: A little girl named Effie has been legally blind since birth. But
today her eye doctor has presented her with a special pair of glasses, and
when she puts them on she can see quite well. “I believe you’ll be happy,”
says the doctor, “with the efficacy of these eyeglasses.”
Other forms: Efficacious (adj); efficaciously (adv)
Sentence: The new medication had a higher degree of efficacy.
ELATED (ee-LAY-ted) adj — extremely happy; overjoyed
Sounds like: eel ate Ted
Picture: Mother eel to father eel: “Dear, I’m so happy! Baby eel ate Ted this
morning! It’s the first time he’s eaten in weeks!” Father eel: “That’s great,
honey, but Ted was my brother. So now you’re elated and I’m lugubrious.”
(Eels talk like that.)
Other form: Elation (noun)
Sentence: Uncle Frank was elated about winning the lottery.
ELOQUENCE (ELL-oh-kwence) noun — powerfully effective speech
Sounds like: elephants
Picture: The Republican National Convention. Thousands have gathered in
the convention hall to hear the guest speaker, an elephant (the party’s
mascot). Everyone is dressed in elephant costumes. Elephant signs and
posters are everywhere. “I’m all ears,” says one audience member. “Many
believe he’s the best speaker in the country. And I’m told that once you hear
him talk, you never forget it.”
Other forms: Eloquent (adj); eloquently (adv)
Sentence: Not usually known for eloquence, Ralph surprised everyone with
a wonderful speech.
EMBELLISH (em-BEL-lish) verb — to make more beautiful; decorate;
adorn
Sounds like: M bell fish
Picture: A young girl showing her mother how she’s decorated the fish in
their goldfish bowl. The fish have bells hanging from their bodies, and each
of the bells has the letter ‘M’ on it. “Look, Mommy,” says the girl, “M Bell
Fish!” “Oh, they’re beautiful,” says the mother, “and if they ever jump out
of the bowl, we’ll be able to hear them flopping around on the floor! Let’s
go decorate the hamsters!”
Other form: Embellishment (noun)
Sentence: Their home was plain and simple, but they embellished it with
handmade crafts.
EMULATE (EM-yoo-late) verb — imitate
Sounds like: Em, you’re late
Picture: Emily is being scolded by her mother for getting home late: “Em,
you’re late.” Standing right behind Emily is her younger brother, who says,
“I’m late too, Mom, because I want to be just like Em.”
Other form: Emulation (noun) Sentence: As young boys, we tried to
emulate our favorite ballplayers.
ENDEMIC (en-DEMM-ik) adj — native to a particular country or
among a particular group
Sounds like: end emic
Think of: A country where everyone gets a strange illness called Emic
Disease. Symptoms include swollen eyebrows, wrinkled kneecaps, and a
kind of a sneeze-cough-hiccup that keeps sufferers (and their families)
awake for weeks at a time. One day, the entire population gathers to protest
the government’s apathy about the disease. Ten thousand people with
swollen eyebrows and wrinkled kneecaps fill the capital city and, between
sneeze-cough-hiccups, they chant, “End Emic.”
Sentence: That particular plant is endemic to the northern tip of the island.
ENDORSE (enn-DORSE) verb — promote; recommend
Sounds like: end horse
Picture: A horse salesman saying to a customer, “I recommend the end
horse.”
Other form: Endorsement (noun)
Sentence: Celebrity endorsements can be effective.
ENERVATE (ENN-er-vate) verb — sap the strength; weaken
Sounds like: enter wait
Picture: A man attempting to get onto an elevator. The elevator operator
tells the man to enter, but every time he tries, the operator tells him to wait.
After ten tries, the man is exhausted. “Enter, wait. Enter, wait.” he says.
“I’m drained. I think I’ll take the stairs.”
Other forms: Enervation (noun); enervative (adj)
Sentence: The hot sun enervated the runners, slowing their pace.
ENHANCE (enn-HANTS) verb — intensify; improve
Sounds like: in hands
Picture: A man and woman have locked themselves out of their car. As the
man encourages her, the woman manages to insert a wire hanger through
the key chain inside the car and pull the keys out through the slightly open
window. With the keys in her hands she says, “Well, this should enhance
our chances of getting home.”
Other form: Enhancement (noun)
Sentence: A coat of paint can greatly enhance the appearance of a room.
ENIGMA (en-IGG-muh) noun — mystery; puzzle
Sounds like: an egg, Ma
Picture: A woman calling her mother from the maternity ward of a hospital,
where she’s just given birth to something unexpected: “This is hard to
explain, but it’s an egg, Ma.” As she speaks, she glances over to the large
egg in the crib next to her bed.
Other form: Enigmatic (adj) Sentence: The origin of Saturn’s rings remains
a puzzling enigma.
ENMITY (ENN-mit-tee) noun — mutual hatred
Sounds like: enemy tee
Picture: Two people who completely hate each other are on the golf course
together. They are about to tee off at the ‘Enemy Tee,’ where hostile players
face each other with golf clubs and keep swinging until one of them has to
be carried away. (Says one observer to another at the Enemy Tee, “This
gives a whole new meaning to the term ‘Grand Slam’ event.”)
Connect with: Amity (noun) — friendship. It’s easy to tell these two words
apart, because ‘enmity’ looks like ‘enemy.’
Sentence: The enmity between the two warring nations is centuries old.
EPHEMERAL (ee-FEM-er-al) adj — temporary; short-lived
Sounds like: F. M. mural
Picture: An artist, known by just his initials (“F.M.”), who paints murals
that fade away very soon after he completes them.
Other form: Ephemerally (adv)
Sentence: My memory of dreams is ephemeral: by lunchtime, I can’t
remember a thing.
ERADICATE (er-AD-ih-kate) verb — remove completely and
permanently; exterminate
Sounds like: a rat, a crate
Picture: Your house is infested with rats and you would prefer that it
weren’t , so you call an exterminator. He comes over the next day with a
bunch of crates. You watch with some curiosity as he spreads the crates all
over the house. You look for traps, poison, spray guns, but you see none of
that stuff. Just crates. So you ask him what’s up. “The rats love these
crates,” he explains. “You put a crate out, a rat will go inside and close the
lid. Nobody knows this, actually, I discovered it. But it’s true. The thing is,
each rat wants its own crate. If you have a rat, I bring in a crate. A rat, a
crate. Fifty rats, fifty crates. I come back tomorrow and take them all away
forever and you’ll never even know they were here.”
Other forms: Eradication (noun); eradicable (adj)
Sentence: Lisa worked hard to eradicate all evidence that her ex-husband
had ever lived with her.
ERRATIC (er-RAT-ik) adj — unpredictable; differing from what is
normal or expected
Sounds like: ear attic
Picture: A house. The owner has installed giant ears on either side of the
house, up near the attic. The neighbors across the street are looking at the
ears and discussing the owner of the house. One neighbor: “He’s always
been kind of unpredictable, but this is strange, even for him.”
Other form: Erratically (adv) Note: Don’t confuse with erotic.
Sentence: The sleepy man was driving erratically.
ERUDITION (err-yoo-DISH-un) noun — the knowledge acquired
through many years of study
Sounds like: every edition
Picture: A student visiting his professor’s office, where the walls are lined
with many books. “Professor,” asks the student, “have you read all these
books?” The teacher responds: “Every edition.”
Other forms: Erudite (adj); eruditely (adv)
Sentence: The professor’s erudite manner impressed many students, and
intimidated others.
ESOTERIC (ess-oh-TERR-ik) adj — known to, or understood by, a
limited group of people
Sounds like: it’s so Derek
Picture: A group of men and boys attending a convention for people named
Derek. Everyone at the Derek Convention is wearing a name tag that says,
“Hello, My Name Is Derek,” and they’re all standing around talking about
famous Dereks in history, telling Derek jokes, and thinking about the things
that Dereks think about. An onlooker (named Jeffrey) says to a friend,
“Don’t ask me what they’re talking about. I haven’t understood one word
they’ve said since I got here. It’s all so, I don’t know... it’s so Derek.”
Other form: Esoterica (noun)
Sentence: The book was filled with esoteric information about a long-lost
tribe.
ETHEREAL (ee-THEER-ee-ul) adj — heavenly; fine; delicately
beautiful
Sounds like: eat cereal
Picture: A beautiful angel with platinum hair, delicately smooth skin, and a
glowing face comes down from the sky to tell everyone how to achieve
such a heavenly state: “Eat cereal.”
Other forms: Etherealness (noun); ethereally (adv)
Sentence: The frozen mist on the trees provided an ethereal backdrop for
the photograph.
EULOGIZE (YOO-luh-jize) verb — to praise highly; to extol
Sounds like: your large eyes
Remember: In our culture, a eulogy is most often a speech given at a
person’s funeral. So picture the brother of the person who has died,
speaking to his sister at her funeral (he’s really speaking to the
congregation, telling them about her). “You were the best sister anyone
could hope for. You were sensitive, and understanding, and always willing
to go out of your way to help someone in need. But what I’ll always
remember about you is your large eyes, filled with love and laughter.”
Note: The prefix “eu-” almost always means “good.” Look up eugenics,
euphony, and euphoria in the dictionary, and see EUPHEMISM below.
Sentence: Listening to a eulogy helps us remember specific traits about the
person who has died.
EUPHEMISM (YOO-fuh-miz-um) noun — a word or phrase that’s used
to make an unpleasant idea sound better
Sounds like: you from prison
Picture: A woman asking a man, “You from prison?” The man, in a prison
uniform, says he prefers “the big house.”
Other forms: Euphemistic (adj), euphemistically (adv)
Sentences: “Passed away” is a euphemism for “died.” “Continental
breakfast” is a euphemism for “muffins and coffee.”
EVASIVE (ee-VAY-siv) adj — tending to avoid giving direct answers
Looks like: Eva’s hive
Picture: A bumble bee has flown his date, Eva, home. She lives in a
condominium of hives, but doesn’t want him to know which one. “So,” he
says, “which hive do you live in, Eva?” “Oh, one of those over there,” she
answers evasively. “Well, I better get some rest. Give me a buzz some
time.”
Other forms: Evade (verb); evasiveness (noun)
Sentence: The nervous witness avoided eye contact and his answers were
evasive.
The following words begin with “ex”. “Ex” sounds like “eggs,” so in
order to remember many of these words, we will create characters,
situations, and stories involving eggs.
EXACERBATE (ex-ASS-er-bate) verb — to make a bad situation worse
Sounds like: eggs as her bait
Picture: A woman is fishing from a rowboat, using hard-boiled eggs as bait.
Nearby, in another boat, is her doctor. He’s worried about her cholesterol
level, which is already too high. “She’s eating fish. And to make matters
worse, she’s using eggs as her bait. She’s going to exacerbate her
condition.”
Other form: Exacerbation (noun)
Sentence: Trying to put out a fire with gasoline will only exacerbate the
problem.
EXALT (egg-ZAWLT) verb — raise in rank; elevate; praise
Sounds like: eggs salt
Picture: Hard-boiled eggs worshipping a salt shaker. As they glorify the salt,
it is raised into the air, elevated by their praise.
Other forms: Exalted (adj); exaltation (noun)
Sentence: The popular queen was exalted by all.
EXPUNGE (ex-PUNJ) verb — erase
Sounds like: x sponge
Picture: A sponge that erases everything it touches.
Sentence: An asteroid could expunge an entire city.
EXPURGATE (EX-per-gate) verb — to remove offensive words, ideas,
or symbols; censor
Sounds like: eggs pure gate
Picture: Someone has painted obscene graffiti on a gate. The eggs who live
next-door are horrified, and immediately repaint the gate to return it to its
pure condition.
Other form: Expurgatory (adj)
Sentence: Some people want to expurgate racist and sexist language from
literature.
EXTEMPORANEOUS (ex-tem-por-AY-nee-us) adj — done without
planning; improvised
Sounds like: eggs temp or rains
Picture: You’re watching the six o’clock news, waiting for the weather
report (you’re planning a family back-to-nature camping trip tomorrow and
you want to know if you’ll need to bring an umbrella for the VCR). But the
regular weatherperson is sick and her substitute is this egg who doesn’t
have a script or any idea what he wants to say. It sounds like this: “If we
look at the map, we see a lot of big letters and numbers. Let’s see, what do
you suppose this “82” means? It could be the temp. Or, the chance of rain,
or the amount of rain we might get tonight. Hey, let’s all just wait and see
what happens. No point in standing here trying to guess what the weather
will do, right? Now back to you, Katie and Bob...”
Other form: Extemporaneously (adv)
Sentence: He spoke extemporaneously, without notes, for an hour.
EXTOL (ex-TOLE) verb — praise
Sounds like: eggs toll
Picture: A giant egg working as a toll collector. The driver must praise the
egg before he’s permitted to pass through the gate.
Other form: Extolment (noun)
Sentence: The writer was extolled for her creativity.
EXTRANEOUS (ex-TRAY-nee-us) adj — unnecessary; irrelevant
Sounds like: extra trains
Picture: A small town with a small population and a small train station.
Each morning exactly two people wait on the platform. At 8:05, the train
pulls into the station, the two passengers board, and the train leaves the
empty platform behind. At 8:09 another train arrives, but there’s nobody
there. At 8:14 another train arrives. At 8:20, still another train pulls into the
empty station. This continues all day long, eight trains every hour for the
only two people in the whole town who commute to work.
Other forms: Extraneously (adv); extraneousness (noun)
Sentence: A good editor will eliminate extraneous words and phrases.
EXTRICATE (EX-trik-ate) verb — to free from a trap or difficult
situation; to disentangle
Sounds like: eggs truck Kate
Picture: Kate works on a chicken farm. One day, Kate is loading eggs onto
the back of a truck when the driver is attacked by a crazed chicken. Startled,
the driver puts the truck into gear and takes off, bouncing at high speed
down the dirt road into town. Meanwhile, Kate has fallen headfirst into the
back of the truck and has been knocked unconscious, buried beneath boxes
of eggs, which have toppled onto her. Arriving at his destination, the driver
runs to the back of the eggs truck, discovers Kate, and frees her from her
trap. (Kate is angry. To find out what she and the driver say to each other,
see PALTRY .)
Sentence: The fox worked for hours to extricate itself from the trap.
EXUBERANT (ex-ZOO-burr-ent) adj — uncontrollably joyous
Sounds like: ex-zoo bear aunt
Picture: A grizzly bear who had left the zoo returns to visit his aunt. When
they see each other, they are both very happy, hugging and dancing and
singing for many hours.
Other forms: Exuberance (noun); exuberantly (adv)
Sentence: The city was exuberant after its team won the championship.
FALLACIOUS (fuh-LAY-shuss) adj — false; misleading
Sounds like: full ashes
Picture: Father and son on the lawn in front of the son’s house. Dad says,
“Be sure to always clean the ashes out of the fireplace.” He is unaware that
the ashes have filled the fireplace and the entire chimney and are spilling
out onto the roof. “Don’t worry, Dad,” says the young man. “I clean it out
every day.”
Other forms: Fallacy (noun); fallaciously (adv)
Sentence: Many claims we believe to be true may, years later, turn out to be
fallacious.
FASTIDIOUS (fass-TID-ee-uss) adj — difficult to please
Sounds like: fast hideous
Picture: A decorator showing her client many kinds of wallpaper. Every
time she holds up a sample, the client says, “Hideous!” The faster she
shows the samples, the faster the client says, “Hideous!”
Other forms: Fastidiousness (noun); fastidiously (adv)
Sentence: The chef was so fastidious, no one could stand to work with him.
FERVOR (FER-ver) noun — strong passion
Sounds like: fever, or forever
Picture: A young man telling his girlfriend how much he loves her. He
speaks with an intensity of passion that seems to have no limits. “Ophelia,
my love for you is like a hurricane at sea, wild, uncontrollable! I’m
drowning in it! It’s swallowing me up, tearing me to pieces, dashing me
against the rocks. I am shredded by passion! I am consumed by fever! A
fever that will last forever!” (The young woman is shocked: “My goodness,
Rudy, it sounds like you should be going out with a nurse.”)
Other forms: Fervidness (noun); fervidly (adv)
Sentence: After the woman’s claim of a miraculous cure, the town was
swept up by religious fervor.
FICKLE (FIK-uhl) adj — lacking loyalty; unpredictably changeable;
erratic
Rhymes with: pickle and nickel
Picture: A little girl and her teacher. The teacher is holding up a picture of a
pickle and a picture of a nickel and has asked the girl which she likes better.
The girl says she likes pickles better. Then she says she likes nickels better.
She continues to alternate, changing her mind every few seconds.
Other form: Fickleness (noun)
Sentence: Audiences are fickle, which is why many celebrities fade from
view.
FLACCID (FLASS-id) adj — lacking firmness; soft; limp
Sounds like: flat Sid
Picture: A jellyfish named Sid. Like all jellyfish, Sid has no bones in his
body, so he is unable to maintain any shape. When he’s dropped onto a
table, he becomes completely flat.
Other forms: Flaccidly (adv); flaccidity (noun)
Sentence: After months away from the gym, the weightlifter’s arms had
become flaccid.
FLAGRANT (FLAY-grent) adj — openly and obviously evil; glaring;
conspicuous
Looks like: flag rent
Picture: A man and woman parading on the sidewalk in front of their
apartment building. Each carries a flag that says, “We have no complaints
about this building or our apartment, but we aren’t going to pay our rent and
we don’t care who knows it.”
Other forms: Flagrantly (adv); flagrancy (noun)
Sentence: The attack was a flagrant violation of the treaty.
FLEDGLING (FLEJ-ling) noun — beginner
Sounds like: fresh wings
Picture: A newly-hatched bird trying to fly with fresh wings. He’s a
beginner.
Sentence: The fledgling pilot flew solo for the first time.
FLIPPANCY (FLIP-an-see) noun — treating a serious situation with
arrogant humor or disrespect
Sounds like: flip and see
Picture: A man sits in the electric chair. Just minutes earlier, a storm
knocked out power and now one of the guards asks if the electricity is back
on. The prisoner smiles casually and gestures to the large switch on the wall
next to the chair: “Just flip and see.”
Other forms: Flippant (adj); flippantly (adv)
Sentence: Hal’s flippant attitude after his arrest only angered the police
more.
FOMENT (foe-MENT) verb — to stir into action; rouse; incite
Sounds like: foam mint
Picture: A man who has covered his face with foam mint (a mint-scented
shave cream). He runs through the streets, trying to stir the other men to
follow his lead and finally shave off their beards. “It’s time to unite,” he
yells, “and remove the whiskers that keep us from seeing who we really
are!”
Other form: Fomentation (noun) Note: Don’t confuse with: “ferment,”
which is a chemical process.
Sentence: The college student was arrested and accused of trying to foment
a riot.
FORESIGHT (FOR-site) noun — the ability to see ahead, anticipate, or
predict
Sounds like: four sight
Picture: A woman who wakes up each morning at four o’clock with a vision
in which she can see the events of the coming day. “I can yell at my kids for
things they haven’t even thought about doing yet!”
Other forms: Foresighted (adj); foresee (verb)
Sentence: Even though it was a sunny morning, she had the foresight to take
an umbrella to work.
FRUGAL (FROO-gull) adj — careful with money; thrifty
Sounds like: few gulls
Picture: The man who wasted his inheritance on gulls (see PRODIGAL )
has a brother. This brother received the same inheritance, but when he met
the seagull salesman, he bought only a few gulls.
Other forms: Frugality (noun); frugally (adv)
Sentence: A frugal shopper will wait for sales before buying.
FULMINATE (FULL-min-ate) verb — to explode, either with sound or
anger
Sounds like: full men ate
Picture: Three large men at a picnic. They ate and ate until they were full,
then the full men ate some more, until they literally exploded. After
witnessing this, the men’s wives blew up in anger.
Other form: Fulmination (noun)
Sentence: He fulminated against his error-prone employee.
FURTIVE (FER-tiv) adj — sneaky; secretive
Sounds like: fur tip
Picture: Husband and wife are about to leave a fancy restaurant. They have
just picked up her fur from the coat check room and he’s complaining about
the prices of the meals, the fact that they have to pay for parking, the cost of
the babysitter, etc. Meanwhile, his wife is sneaking back to the coat check
girl to slip her a dollar.
Other forms: Furtiveness (noun); furtively (adv)
Sentence: Three hours late, he tiptoed furtively into the house.
FUTILE (FYOO-til) adj — hopelessly ineffective; useless; in vain
Sounds like: few tile
Picture: Two men on a roof. They’re professional roofers, which is why
they’re up there and which means they’re supposed to know how to
estimate how many tiles they’ll need to do a certain roof. But they
underestimated and now they’re trying to figure out how to stretch the few
tiles they have left to cover about forty square feet of roof area. “It’s
hopeless,” says one. “Too few tiles.”
Other forms: Futility (noun); futilely (adv)
Sentence: The cow tried to fly, but it was a futile effort.
GARBLED (GAR-bulled) adj — changed so much that the original
meaning has been distorted; scrambled
Sounds like: gargled
Picture: A man talking and gargling at the same time. His friend is trying
hard to understand the message, but it’s too distorted to comprehend.
Other form: Garble (verb)
Sentence: The email came through, but it was garbled.
GARISH (GAIR-ish) adj — flashy; gaudy
Looks like: car fish
Picture: A fish swimming in the ocean. This fish has fins like a ’58 Chevy,
with flashy chrome trim and pinstriping; its scales are two-tone metallic.
When it moves past other fish, it turns on a set of blinking lights that act as
turn signals, and sounds a horn that plays the theme from “Flipper.”
Other forms: Garishly (adv); garishness (noun)
Sentence: In an effort to look exotic, the fortune teller wore a lot of garish
jewelry.
GARNER (GARR-ner) verb — collect; gather; accumulate; earn
Sounds like: gardener
Picture: A gardener showing the many ribbons she has collected for her
prize-winning flowers.
Sentence: His songs have garnered many awards.
GARRULOUS (GAIR-uh-luss) adj — very talkative; loquacious
Sounds like: Gary Loose
Think of: A talkative man named Gary Loose Lips. Gary can’t stop talking
for a second. He wears a pair of low gray shoes, which are also talking (see
LOQUACIOUS ).
Other form: Garrulity (noun)
Sentence: Paul was garrulous, so he was a natural choice to be the
spokesperson.
GENIAL (JEE-nee-ul) adj — friendly; gracious; kind
Sounds like: Genie Al
Picture: A Genie named Al has just come out of his bottle. He is extremely
friendly and accommodating, wanting very much to please everyone around
him.
Other form: Geniality (noun)
Sentence: I try to be genial, but my natural grouchiness inevitably comes
through.
GERMANE (jer-MAYNE) adj — relevant; fitting
Looks like: Germany
Picture: A courtroom. The lawyer asks the witness on the stand, “What’s the
capital of Germany?” The judge interrupts: “I don’t see how that question is
relevant to this case. It’s not germane.”
Sentence: When writing an essay, focus on the germane points.
GIRTH (GERTH) noun — distance around an object; circumference
Rhymes with: birth
Picture: A pregnant woman, very wide around the middle.
Sentence: The old oak tree had a girth of twelve feet.
GLUTTON (GLUT-tin) noun — a person who consumes huge quantities
of food or drink; someone with great endurance
Looks like: a combination of “glue” and “button”
Picture: A big casserole of glue and buttons. Someone at the dinner table is
devouring an enormous amount of this stuff, for some reason.
Other forms: Gluttony (noun); gluttonous (adj)
Sentence: His gluttony, especially for sweets, got him into a serious medical
condition.
GRAVITY (GRAH-vih-tee) noun — seriousness
Sounds exactly like: gravity, the force that holds us to the Earth.
Picture: An astronaut has landed on some distant planet with very powerful
gravity. The force is so strong that the astronaut has been flattened by it (a
serious situation).
Other forms: Grave (adj); gravely (adv)
Sentence: A situation’s gravity can sometimes cause nervous laughter.
GREGARIOUS (greh-GAIR-ee-uss) adj — sociable; extroverted;
enjoying companionship
Sounds like: Greg, Gary, and us
Picture: A man and woman are getting ready to leave for vacation. As the
husband carries his suitcase down the stairs, he sees that two friends are
seated in his living room. His wife explains that she’s invited everyone they
know to go on vacation with them. “Well, so far it’s Greg, Gary, and us,”
she says. “But I’m still waiting to hear from Audrey, Fred, and Nora Jean.
And Fred’s going to call his brother, and Audrey’s asking everyone in her
building...”
Other form: Gregariousness (noun)
Sentence: Gregarious people probably make better salesmen.
GULLIBLE (GULL-ih-bull) adj — easily deceived
Sounds like: gully bull
Picture: A bull has fallen into a gully, tricked by the other bulls.
Other form: Gullibility (noun)
Sentence: Don’t be so gullible that you believe everything.
HACKNEYED (HAK-need) adj — unoriginal; trite
Sounds like: hat kneed
Picture: Two women with fancy hats on their knees commenting on a third
woman with baseball caps on her knees.
Sentence: Avoid hackneyed phrases in your writing.
HAMPER (HAM-purr) verb — interfere with movement or progress
Sounds like: hamper (as in clothes hamper)
Picture: A gigantic clothes hamper parked in the middle of a highway,
causing traffic to back up for miles.
Sentence: The blizzard hampered the search for survivors.
HAPHAZARD (hap-HAZ-erd) adj — without plan or direction
Sounds like: hop Hazel (also notice the word “hazard“)
Picture: Hazel plans to hop across the state of North Dakota. As she gets
ready to go, a reporter asks what her plan is, how many maps she has, and
how she intends to deal with the hazards out there. Hazel: “Plans? Maps?
Who needs them? I’m just going. If I get lost, I’ll go a different way. And if
I run into any hazards, I’ll hop around them. Well, here I go. See you when
I get somewhere.”
Other forms: Haphazardly (adv); haphazardness (noun)
Sentence: Martin planted the trees haphazardly, scattering them around the
yard.
HARANGUE (her-RANG) noun — a long, lecturing speech
Sounds like: her gang
Picture: A meeting of a women’s gang. The leader is delivering an endless
lecture about the importance of wearing helmets on the road. (One member
interrupts: “But we’re driving stationwagons.”)
Other form: Harangue (verb)
Sentence: We began wearing earplugs at work to get some relief from his
harangues.
HARBOR (HAR-ber) verb — to provide shelter or refuge; hide
Sounds exactly like: harbor (the body of water)
Picture: While fishermen prowl around on the ocean, an organization called
“The Undersea Railroad,” run by large turtles and seals, helps get fish into
the harbor, where they can hide until it’s safe.
Sentence: Harboring a known criminal is a crime in itself.
HARDY (HARD-ee) adj— bold; brave; capable of withstanding harsh
conditions
Looks like: hard Y
Picture: The letters of the alphabet are in a log cabin, holding a contest to
see who can stand out in the cold for the longest time. Now 25 of them have
come in to sit near the fire. Several letters are looking out the window at the
Y, standing in the snow. It’s below zero and windy, but Y doesn’t move. “He
is one hard letter,” says R. “Hey, U, why don’t you go out there and tell him
to come in?” “Not me,” answers U. “We vowels are too soft for this kind of
weather.”
Other forms: Hardiness (noun); hardily (adv) Don’t confuse with “hearty,”
which means “enthusiastic.”
Sentence: Lewis and Clark were hardy explorers of rugged terrain.
HEDGE (HEJ) verb — to avoid giving a clear answer, thereby escaping
responsibility or blame
Sounds exactly like: hedge
Picture: A wealthy woman is questioning her gardener about the horribly
trimmed hedge in front of her mansion. The gardener, not wishing to be
castigated, avoids the question with vague answers: “The hedge? I don’t
recall who trimmed it this week. I mean, yes, I am the only gardener, but
maybe one of the neighborhood kids sneaked into the toolshed and used the
clippers. I’m not saying that’s what happened, but then again, who can
know for sure...?”
Note: “Hedge” means to beat around the bush!
Sentence: Connected to the lie detector, Big Nick tried to hedge his way
through the test.
HEED (HEED) verb — notice; pay attention to
Sounds exactly like: he’d
Picture: A boy is about to leave for college. His mother is trying to hide her
sadness with an endless string of warnings (addressed to her husband):
“He’d better drive carefully. And he’d better call the minute he gets there.
And he’d better be listening to me. And he’d better brush his teeth after
dinner. And he’d better go to bed early tonight. That’s all I’m going to say,
but he’d better pay attention. And he’d better study every day. Is he
listening to me?”
Other form: Heed (noun) — as in, “to take heed.”
Sentence: It’s wise to heed the warnings of a coming hurricane or tornado.
HEINOUS (HAY-niss) adj — shockingly evil
Sounds like: hang us
Picture: Three men standing on the steps of the gallows, three nooses
dangling from the cross-bar. One of the men says to the sheriff, “Our crimes
were heinous. All you can do is hang us.”
Sentence: An especially heinous crime can leave a community in shock for
years.
HERESY (HEHR-eh-see) noun — an opinion expressed in defiance of
generally accepted ideas
Sounds like: her a C
Picture: A college philosophy class. Two students are discussing the grade a
third student received: “He gave her a C just because she titled her paper,
Socrates Was An Idiot.”
Other forms: Heretic (noun); heretical (adj)
Sentence: In centuries past, people were burned at the stake for heretical
comments.
HIATUS (high-ATE-us) noun — gap; interruption; a break in
continuity; a pause
Sounds like: Hi, Atus
Picture: A group of bricklayers building a wall. As the foreman, a man
named Atus, inspects the five-foot-high wall, he comes to a gap — a place
where the wall is only a foot high, as if the bricklayer assigned to that
portion had stopped working several hours ago. Just then he hears someone
yell out, “Hi, Atus!” and turns around to find the missing bricklayer lying
down on a lounge chair. The brick layer explains, “I needed a little break.”
Sentence: Some companies take a summer hiatus, closing down completely
for weeks.
HIERARCHY (HY-er-ar-kee) noun — a group of people in authority,
ranked in order of power; a sequential listing
Sounds like: hire Archie
Picture: The executive board meeting of a large corporation. The chairman
is standing at a flip-chart showing the company’s chain of command,
beginning with him at the top. Each of the boxes below the chairman on the
chart has the name of a vice president or assistant vice president, except one
box, which is blank. The chairman is saying, “I want you to hire Archie for
this position. I think he’d fit very well into the hierarchy of the company.”
Other form: Hierarchical (adj)
Sentence: The military is a hierarchy: each level is more powerful than the
ones below it.
HOMAGE (OMM-ij) noun — respect paid to someone or something;
tribute; honor
Looks like: home age
Picture: A very, very, very old house. The house has been restored to its
original appearance and is beautifully decorated. From miles around, real
estate agents, historians, and tourists come to visit the old house and show
their respect. “I don’t even know the home’s age,” says one visitor, “but I
feel I should pay homage to it.”
Sentence: We pay homage to certain people by putting their images on
stamps and currency.
HOMOGENEOUS (ho-mo-JEEN-ee-us) adj — the same throughout;
consistent; uniform
Sounds like: home of genius
Picture: A genius is being studied by a team of scientists. They’re trying to
determine if anything about her home life has contributed to her amazing
mental abilities. When they arrive they find that the home of this genius is
remarkably consistent: all of the rooms are exactly the same size, the walls
are all the same color, and every piece of furniture is the same height and
style. In addition, the light bulbs are all 75 watts, the air is always
maintained at 70 degrees, and every book in the house contains exactly 384
pages. “Hmmm,” says one of the scientists, “maybe the home of a genius
needs to be homogeneous.”
Other forms: Homogeneousness (noun); homogeneously (adv)
Sentence: If you add chocolate syrup to a glass of milk and stir, you’ll get a
homogeneous mixture.
HYPERBOLE (hi-PURR-boe-lee) noun — extreme exaggeration
Looks like: Hyper Bowl
Think of two things: the use of the word, “hype,” meaning to heavily
promote something, thus exaggerating its attraction, and football’s Super
Bowl, which is usually hyped beyond belief. Now combine these two ideas
and imagine a “Hyper Bowl,” a game that requires the two teams to outexaggerate each other. The players are lined up, face-to-face. Someone from
one side says, “You don’t have a chance against us. We won our last game
by forty-seven touchdowns.” Someone from the other team responds, “By
the time we’re finished, they’ll have to pick you guys out of the grass with
tweezers.”
Sentence: “I’ve told you a million times” is an example of hyperbole.
HYPOCRITE (HIP-oh-crit) noun — an insincere person; one who
pretends to have feelings he doesn’t really possess
Sounds like: hippo crit
Picture: A hippopotamus smiling at his friend, even as he steals his wallet.
Other form: Hypocritical (adj)
Sentence: Don’t be a hypocrite -- say what you mean!
IDOLATRY (eye-DOLL-uh-tree) noun — the worship of objects or
people as gods
Sounds like: a doll, a tree
Picture: People had been coming from all over town, and now they’re
arriving from other states, to see the man who worships the doll in the tree.
He has placed one of his daughter’s dolls high up in a maple tree on his
front lawn, and every morning at 7 o’clock he kneels on the damp grass and
bows before the doll, praying and asking for forgiveness.
Other forms: Idolater (noun); idolize (verb); idolatrous (adj)
Sentence: In Judeo-Christian scripture, idolatry is forbidden by the Ten
Commandments.
IMBUE (im-BYOO) verb — to fill, as with a strong dye or a strong
feeling
Looks like: I’m blue
Picture: A worker at the dye factory has fallen into the blue vat. When he
pulls himself out, his clothes and skin are completely imbued with the dye.
“How do you feel?” his co-workers ask. He responds simply, “I’m blue.”
Sentence: The speaker imbued her audience with powerful feelings of
confidence.
IMMINENT (IMM-uh-nint) adj — about to take place; happening soon
Sounds like: in a minute
Picture: A farmer and his son discussing the tornado that’s supposed to be
on its way. The father, listening to the radio: “They say the tornado is
imminent. When do you think it will get here?” The son, looking out the
window, sees the dark funnel on the horizon. “In a minute,” he says.
Other forms: Imminently (adv); imminence (noun)
Sentence: Another stabbing contraction and the pregnant woman knew the
birth was imminent.
IMMUTABLE (im-MYOO-tah-bull) adj — unable to change
Looks like: a mute table
Picture: Two chairs have been trying, without success, to strike up a
conversation with a table. As the table sits silently (mutely), one chair says
to the other, “It’s no use. Tables just don’t talk. They never have and I guess
they never will.”
Other forms: Immutability (noun); immutably (adv)
Sentence: The speed of light seems to be an immutable law of nature.
IMPAIR (im-PARE) verb — weaken in strength or value
Looks like: I’m pair
Picture: An exhausted pear seated at his desk, holding a lamp and talking
into it.
Other forms: Impairment (noun); impaired (adj)
Sentence: Ed’s concentration was impaired by alcohol.
IMPASSE (IM-pass) noun — a situation from which you cannot escape;
stalemate
Sounds like: him pass
Picture: Two cars face each other, front-bumper-to-front-bumper, on a
narrow road. There isn’t enough room for them to go around each other, and
neither driver is willing to back up, so they sit. An observer on the side of
the road watches the conflict, listening to each driver yell, “I refuse to let
him pass!”
Don’t confuse with: Impassive. Sentence: The two sides reached an impasse
and negotiations were halted.
IMPASSIVE (im-PASS-iv) adj — without feeling; expressionless
Looks like: Impasse (refer to the situation described under IMPASSE ,
above)
Picture: The person watching the impasse between the two drivers is
looking on impassively. He is totally unconcerned with how the conflict
will be resolved and, as the drivers grow angrier and angrier, he remains
calm and expressionless (impassive).
Other forms: Impassively (adv); impassivity (noun)
Sentence: Strangely calm, Margaret watched impassively as her car rolled
into the river.
IMPEDE (im-PEED) verb — get in the way; hinder
Looks like: I’m Pete
Picture: Pete walks out onto the track while a women’s relay race is going
on. Just as two racers are about to exchange the baton, he walks between
them and says to one, “I’m Pete.”
Other form: Impediment (noun) Sentence: In baseball, a fielder may not
impede the progress of a runner.
IMPETUOUS (im-PETCH-oo-us) adj — taking sudden action; hasty;
impulsive
Sounds like: in pet shoes
Picture: Wife comes home with the family sheepdog. Husband is watching
TV and looks over to see that the dog is wearing very stylish shoes on all
four paws. “I just bought them without thinking,” wife explains. “They
were there in the window, we were walking by, we both liked them, so I
bought them. I know it was impetuous, but hey, he does have that kennel
dance next Friday.”
Other forms: Impetuosity (nouns); impetuously (adv) Don’t confuse with:
Impetus
Sentence: People who think before they act may look upon the impetuous
with curiosity.
IMPOSTOR (im-POSS-ter) noun — pretender
Looks like: I’m Postor
Picture: A man named Mr. Postor is about to receive a special award that
includes a $25,000 prize, many gifts, and the praise and respect of
thousands of people. Suddenly, another man bursts into the room yelling,
“Wait! I’m Postor! He’s a fake!”
Sentence: There are many impostors lurking on the Internet, so watch out!
IMPUDENCE (IMP-yoo-dense) noun — rudeness; insolence
Sounds like: in pew dance (a pew is a seat or bench in a church)
Picture: It’s Sunday morning and the church is filled. The minister is about
to begin her sermon when suddenly a man jumps up in his pew and
performs a wild dance. The churchgoers are shocked, to say the least, at his
rudeness and lack of consideration for others.
Other forms: Impudent (adj); impudently (adv)
Note: Don’t confuse with “imprudence,” which means “a lack of wisdom”
(see PRUDENT ).
Sentence: Impudence, or any disrespectful behavior, is not tolerated in a
court of law.
INADVERTENT (in-ad-VER-tent) adj — unintentional
Sounds like: in at her tent
Picture: An army troop camping out during an overnight hike. One of the
men accidentally walks into the tent of a female officer. Furious, she throws
him out. (One observer: “So he made a mistake. What’s the big deal?”
Second observer: “It’s the seventh time today he’s made that mistake.”)
Other form: Inadvertently (adv)
Sentence: The newspaper inadvertently switched the names under the
picture.
INANE (in-NANE) adj — silly; insignificant
Looks like: insane (without the “S”)
Picture: A man reads a letter from his psychiatrist, then cries to his wife:
“He says I’m insane!” When he becomes hysterically upset, she takes the
letter and reads it. “No, it says ‘inane,’” she tells him. “It’s nothing to worry
about. You’re just being silly.”
Other forms: Inanity (noun); inanely (adv)
Sentence: It’s hard to believe that grown men could argue over such inane
matters.
INAUGURATE (in-AWG-yer-ate) verb — begin; induct into
Sounds like: in Aug. you’re eight
Picture: The Mid-Childhood Club, made up of children between the ages of
eight and thirteen. The president is speaking to a new group of kids, all of
whom will be celebrating their 8th birthday on August 1st. The date is July
31: “In Aug. you’re eight, and each of you will be officially welcomed into
the Mid-Childhood Club.”
Other forms: Inauguration (noun); inaugural (adj)
Sentence: The President of the United States is inaugurated on January 20.
INCESSANT (in-SESS-ent) adj — continuous; endless
Sounds like: in says ant
Picture: An ant hill just before a storm. One ant stands at the door and says,
“In! In! In!” over and over and over as an endless stream of ants pours into
the shelter.
Other forms: Incessantly (adv); incessancy (noun)
Sentence: The incessant buzzing of mosquitoes drove us crazy.
INCHOATE (ink-OH-ett) adj — not yet fully developed
Sounds like: ink oh-eight
Picture: A tank, such as one you would see at a winery. But this is an inkery,
where ink is made and stored. The ink in one particular tank was produced
in 2008 and has not aged enough, so is not yet ready for use. The tank is
labeled, “Ink 0-8.”
Sentence: The inchoate army needs a great deal more training.
INCITE (in-SITE) verb — arouse to action; stir up; foment
Sounds like: ignite
Picture: A small country that has been controlled by a foreign nation for
many years. One day, on the tenth anniversary of the country’s takeover, a
woman runs through the streets of the capital. She calls for action, urging
the citizens to fight for their freedom. Like a spark falling into dry grass,
she ignites a fire of anger among the people, and it quickly grows into a
blazing revolution.
Other form: Incitement (noun) Note: Don’t confuse with “insight,” the
ability to perceive.
Sentence: The angry miner incited his co-workers to strike.
INCOMPATIBLE (in-kum-PAT-a-bull) adj — incapable of existing
together in peace
Sounds like: in combat with Bill
Picture: A woman has left her husband and gone to stay with a friend. “It’s
no use,” she says. “Every day I find myself in combat with Bill. We just
cannot get along.”
Other forms: Incompatibility (noun); incompatibly (adv)
Sentence: Very often, two male animals are incompatible.
INCONGRUOUS (in-KON-groo-uss) adj — out of place
Sounds like: in Congress
Picture: The U.S. Capitol (Congress) with something unexpected in the
middle of the picture.
Other forms: Incongruity (noun); incongruously (adv)
Sentence: A tuxedo would be incongruous at the beach.
INCORRIGIBLE (in-KORR-ij-uh-bull) adj — impossible to correct,
control, or discipline
Sounds like: in car itch a bull
Picture: A bull family out for a drive in their Ford Taurus. One of the
children in the back seat has put fleas and ticks under his father’s seat. The
father, trying to drive, is squirming from the itch. Mother Bull scolds her
son: “You are absolutely incorrigible!”
Other forms: Incorrigibility (noun); incorrigibly (adv)
Sentence: Those prisoners deemed incorrigible are often separated from the
others.
INCREDULOUS (in-CREJ-oo-luss) adj — unwilling or unable to
believe
Sounds like: ink red, you lose!
Picture: A man is playing roulette at a casino. He’s been at it a while,
winning, losing, winning, losing. Now he’s put all of his money, including
his car keys and the deed to his house, on “25 Black.” The attendant spins
the wheel and talks as the wheel slows down: “looking for black ink,
looking for black ink, looking for black... and ink’s red, you lose!” The man
stares at the wheel for a long time. “I can’t believe it,” he says. “I just can’t
believe it!”
Other forms: Incredulity (noun); incredulously (adv)
Note: An object or event is incredible; the person observing it is
incredulous. Also, connect with other words containing the root “cred,”
such as credence, credulous, credibility, credentials, and credit; all have to
do with “belief.”
Sentence: He watched incredulously as his dog got into the family minivan
and drove away.
INDICT (in-DITE) verb — charge with a crime; accuse
Sounds like: in tight
Picture: A man has his right arm stuck in the cash slot of an automated teller
machine at the bank. An alarm has sounded and the police are about to
come in. “I’m really in tight here,” he thinks. “I’m sure they’re going to
charge me with attempted robbery.”
Other form: Indictment (noun)
Sentence: The gangster was indicted on four counts of murder.
INDIGENT (INN-deh-jint) adj — very poor
Sounds like: Indy Gent
Picture: A very poor man named Indy Gent. His clothes are tattered and
dirty and he has few or no possessions.
Other forms: Indigence, indigent (nouns)
Note: Don’t confuse this word with “indigenous,” which means “native or
inborn.” Or “indignant,” which means “angry.”
Sentence: Pauline works hard to help the homeless and the indigent.
INDOLENT (INN-doe-lent) adj — lazy
Connect with: Indigent. Picture Indy Gent, who is very poor. Now think of
why he’s so poor. Maybe he’s extremely lazy and doesn’t want to work. So
he’s indigent because he’s indolent. To distinguish between the two similar
sounding words, remember that indolent has an “L” in it, for lazy.
Other forms: Indolence (noun); indolently (adv)
Sentence: Martha was a hard worker and could not tolerate indolence in her
children.
INDUCE (in-DOOSE) verb — cause to happen; bring about
Sounds like: in deuce
Picture: Two well-known tennis players are engaged in a long and difficult
match. One player falls behind in the final game, then suddenly manages to
lure his opponent into a series of mistakes (he’s caused the mistakes to
happen). Now they’re in deuce.
Other forms: Inducement (noun); inducible (adj)
Sentence: He was a persuasive salesman and could induce his customers to
buy almost anything.
INERT (ih-NERT) adj — lacking movement; inactive; sluggish
Sounds like: in dirt
Picture: Fossils of animals found deep in the dirt. They have remained
motionless and unchanged for many thousands of years. They are inert.
Other forms: Inertness, inertia (nouns); inertly (adv)
Sentence: The Dark Ages are typically portrayed as a time of cultural
inertness.
INFALLIBLE (in-FAHL-ih-bull) adj — incapable of making a mistake
Looks like: in fall a bell
Picture: A tall tower in the middle of town. In the tower there is a bell that
rings just once a year, at the moment summer ends and fall begins. Whether
the season starts on September 20, 21, or 22, the bell always rings exactly
on schedule, to the second. It never makes a mistake.
Other forms: Infallibility (noun); infallibly (adv) Alternate approach: Just
think of “infailable.”
Sentence: An infallible system for predicting numbers would spell the end
of all lotteries.
INFAMY (INN-fuh-mee) noun — a bad reputation; notoriety
Sounds like: in for me
Picture: A lifelong criminal is complaining about the news media. “They’ve
got it in for me,” he says. “And why? What have I done? Some bank
robberies, two or three dozen murders, a kidnapping here and there. So
where did I get this terrible reputation?”
Other form: Infamous (adj) Sentence: Some criminals seek immortality by
living on in infamy.
INFER (in-FER) verb — to figure out, based on given information;
conclude; deduce
Sounds like: in fur
Picture: A scientist finds a baby seal on the shore and notices that the seal’s
fur is coated with oil. From this information (the oil in the fur), the scientist
concludes that there has been an oil spill in the area.
Other form: Inference (noun) Note: Infer doesn’t mean “to imply” or “to
suggest.” When you infer something, you take in information.
Sentence: We can infer from his casual dress that he didn’t read the
invitation carefully.
INFILTRATE (IN-fil-trayt) verb — penetrate by passing through gaps;
enter secretly and become established, such as a spy might do in an
enemy organization
Sounds like: infield rate
Picture: The owner of a major league baseball team is upset. Someone has
leaked to the press very secret information about what she’s paying the
infielders on the team (infield rate). “There’s a spy among us,” she tells her
board of directors. “Someone has infiltrated this organization and is telling
our financial business to the newspapers. Now all the outfielders will want
raises.”
Other form: Infiltration (noun) Sentence: Intelligence agencies try to
infiltrate enemy organizations.
INGENUOUS (in-JEN-yoo-us) adj — naive; unsophisticated;
inexperienced
Looks like: ingenious
Remember: “Ingenuous” and “ingenious” look almost exactly alike, so it’s
easy to confuse them. Take a good long look at both words. Learn to
distinguish between them. (In a sense, they’re opposites.)
Now, imagine a brilliant person, such as Thomas Edison, who has come up
with an ingenious invention, such as the light bulb. Now also imagine that
Mr. Edison is pretty unsophisticated, or ingenuous, when it comes to
business. He might say something like, “Okay, so it lights up. Big deal.
Who’s going to buy it? Everyone has candles. Maybe I’ll just give it to my
cousin Phil, and if he wants to market it, let him make a few bucks.” Mrs.
Edison replies, “Tom, you’re so ingenious, but you’re also ingenuous.”
Other forms: ingenuousness (noun); ingenuously (adv) Connect with:
Disingenuous (“shrewd”)
Sentence: His ingenuous manner led us to believe he was incapable of
deceit.
INNATE (in-NATE) adj — having a quality that arises from within,
rather than learned or acquired from the outside; native; inborn
Sounds like: Inn Eight
Picture: A woman and man are looking through a guidebook in search of a
country inn for their vacation. “I like inn number eight,” says the woman,
pointing at a number on a map in the book. “It doesn’t have a swimming
pool, or a fancy menu, or a golf course nearby. But there seems to be
something about this place. It has an innate quality, a charm the others are
missing.”
Other forms: Innateness (noun); innately (adv) Note: Be careful not to
confuse “innate” with “inane.”
Sentence: Elephants have an innate tendency to stick together and help each
other.
INNOCUOUS (in-NOK-yoo-uss) adj — harmless; inoffensive
Sounds like: inn octopus
Picture: A couple arriving for a weekend stay at a country inn. The
innkeeper points out the dining room, the fireplace in the library, and the
live octopus in the parlor. “Don’t worry about him,” the host says to the
startled guests. “He’s harmless.”
Other form: Innocuously (adv)
Sentence: The drink looked innocuous, but actually contained a deadly
poison.
INNOVATION (in-no-VAY-shun) noun — a new idea, product, or
method
Sounds like: an ovation
Picture: An inventor talking to the producer of a TV show. He has invented
a device that simulates the sound of a crowd giving an ovation. The
producer considers it a great innovation, because it eliminates the need for
live people, who could be unpredictable in their responses to the show.
Other forms: Innovative (adj); innovate (verb)
Sentence: The twentieth century was probably the richest period of
innovation in history.
 (in-SKROO-tuh-bull) adj — mysterious
Sounds like: on scooter bull
Picture: Archeologists have discovered drawings on the walls of a cave. The
drawings are thousands of years old and clearly show a bull riding a
scooter. “We shall call these drawings, “On Scooter Bull,” says a scientist.
“But we may never know what they mean.”
Other forms: Inscrutability (noun); inscrutably (adv)
Sentence: People have always longed to understand the inscrutable
universe.
INSIPID (in-SIP-id) adj — dull; flat; without sparkle or flavor
Sounds like: in! sip it!
Picture: A young child, sick with the flu. Her mother is trying to get her to
drink some flat ginger ale to calm the child’s upset stomach. “In!” she says.
“In! Sip it! I know it has no flavor. Just sip it.”
Other form: Insipidly (adv)
Sentence: Amy was surprised that her husband could enjoy such a boring,
insipid movie.
INSOLENT (IN-so-lent) adj — rude; haughty
Sounds like: insulin (a hormone produced by the pancreas)
Picture: A meeting of the body’s internal organs. Each speaks in turn.
Suddenly the pancreas starts yelling about how important he is, and how the
body wouldn’t be able to absorb carbohydrates without his insulin, and how
he should be thanked for the work he does. (“There he goes again,” says the
liver. “Spouting insulin and insolence. I hope he doesn’t get the stomach
upset.”)
Other forms: Insolence (noun); insolently (adv)
Sentence: Lenny was suspended from school for his insolent behavior.
INSOLVENT (in-SOL-vent) adj — unable to pay bills; bankrupt
Sounds like: in Sol’s vent
Picture: The owner of a small business walks to the bank to make a deposit.
Right in front of Sol’s Ripoff Emporium he trips, dropping the bag of
money down a vent in the sidewalk. When he looks down, he sees the bag,
but it’s now in Sol’s basement. Sol is a crook and will never give it back.
“All my money’s in Sol’s vent!” he cries. “Now I won’t be able to pay my
bills!”
Other form: Insolvency (noun)
Sentence: The workers’ morale was low because they knew the company
was facing insolvency.
INTERMITTENT (in-ter-MIT-tint) adj — occurring at intervals;
periodic; not constant or continual
Sounds like: in her mitten
Picture: A little girl stands outside in the falling snow. Every once in a
while, a snowflake lands in her mitten. She never knows when it will
happen, but she knows it will happen again soon.
Other forms: Intermittently (adv); intermission (noun)
Sentence: The intermittent showers were followed by long periods of
sunshine.
INTRACTABLE (in-TRACK-tah-bull) adj — stubborn; immovable
Looks like: in-track table
Picture: A table wedged between railroad tracks. Two people are trying to
move it. “It’s no use,” says one. “It refuses to budge.”
Other forms: Intractability (noun); intractably (adv)
Sentence: Rita was intractable in her belief that she’d been abducted by
aliens.
INTRINSIC (in-TRIN-zik) adj — located within the very nature of an
object or person; inherent
Sounds like: in train sick
Picture: A man and woman on a train. The man looks as if he’s about to
either throw up or pass out. Meanwhile, his wife explains to the conductor,
“No, it isn’t the motion or the speed or the noise, because he doesn’t get
sick on cars or airplanes or roller coasters. There’s some quality intrinsic to
trains that makes him feel sick.”
Other form: Intrinsically (adv)
Sentence: Clean water has intrinsic value, while antique cars have market
value.
INVERT (in-VERT) verb — turn upside down or inside out; reverse
position
Looks like: invent
Picture: A scientist named Dr. Bert Invert, who has invented a device that
turns objects upside down, regardless of their size or weight. When you
enter Dr. Invert’s lab, you notice that tables, chairs, desks, and lamps are all
upside down. “I was going to invert the entire building,” he says, “but the
plumber advised against it.”
Other forms: Inversion (noun); inverted and invertible (adj)
Sentence: The man at the print shop accidentally inverted the image on the
poster.
IRASCIBLE (ihr-RASS-ih-bull) adj — easily angered
Sounds like: erase a bull
Picture: A very tempermental artist has been trying to draw a bull for
several days, but every version looks worse than the one before. As he gets
angrier and angrier, he screams at himself, “Draw a bull, erase a bull. Draw
a bull, erase a bull!”
Other forms: Irascibleness (noun); irascibly (adv)
Sentence: He’s irascible in the morning; don’t talk to him before noon.
IRONY (EYE-rah-nee) or (EYE-er-nee) noun — an unexpected outcome,
or the use of a word that is the opposite of its literal meaning
Sounds like: iron knee
Picture: A basketball player who wished for knees like iron. Instead, he got
irons on his knees.
Other forms: Ironic (adj); ironically (adv)
Sentence: It’s ironic that he tripped on a crutch and broke his leg.
IRRESOLUTE (eer-REZ-uh-loot) adj — indecisive; unsure
Sounds like: ear razor loot
Picture: A man, dressed as a giant ear, in the audience of “Let’s Make A
Deal.” Does he keep the electric razor he’s won or go for the loot behind
door number 3? “I’ll keep the razor. No, wait, I’ll take the loot. I don’t
know, the razor or the loot? How much time do I have? Can I call you in the
morning?”
Other forms: Irresoluteness (noun); irresolutely (adv)
Sentence: His irresolute attitude about getting married caused her to call off
the wedding.
IRREVERENT (eer-REV-rent) adj — disrespectful
Sounds like: ear Reverend
Picture: In the lobby of the church hangs a photograph of the Reverend.
One of the members of the congregation, obviously lacking in respect for
this particular member of the clergy, has painted enormous ears on the
Reverend’s picture.
Other forms: Irreverence (noun); irreverently (adv) Connect with: Revere
(opposite)
Sentence: Pamela’s irreverent remarks got her into trouble with her
supervisor.
JARGON (JARR-gun) noun — specialized language used by a
particular group
Sounds like: jar gone
Picture: Policeman questioning the burglary victim: “So you’re saying that
the alleged perpetrator unlawfully removed from your domicile one widemouthed vessel made principally of earthenware?” Victim pointing to
empty shelf: “No, what I’m saying is that my jar is gone.”
Sentence: The use of jargon can be an efficient way to communicate,
especially in an emergency.
JAUNDICE (JAWN-diss) noun — yellow color; or, envy or resentment
Sounds like: enjoying this
Picture: The little third-grade girl couldn’t wait for her mother to come to
Parents’ Night at her school so she could show off her artwork. Everyone in
the class had to draw and then paint something yellow. The girl drew
pencils and bananas and daffodils, painted them all yellow, wrote “Yellow
Stuff” at the top, and taped it to her classroom wall. But when her mother
came into the room, she stopped at another girl’s work (called “Color My
World Yellow”) and admired it so much she couldn’t tear herself away to
look at her daughter’s painting. “I’m sorry, dear,” the mother said, “but I’m
enjoying this. I’ll see yours later.” The little girl could only look on in envy.
Other form: Jaundiced (adj)
Sentence: Jaundice, a yellowish look to the skin, may be a sign of liver
trouble.
JAUNTY (JAWN-tee) adj — lively; perky
Sounds like: jointy
Picture: A wooden puppet dancing around, each of his joints swinging
freely and rhythmically.
Other forms: Jauntiness (noun); jauntily (adv) Note: Don’t confuse with
“jaunt” (a short trip).
Sentence: The host’s jaunty mood soon had everyone enjoying the party.
JEOPARDY (JEP-er-dee) noun — the threat or possibility of danger
Sounds exactly like: Jeopardy! (the TV show)
Picture: The set of the Jeopardy! show. The three contestants are standing
behind their podiums. Suddenly, the player in the lead finds himself in
possible danger because of the resentment of one of his fellow contestants.
Other form: Jeopardize (verb)
Sentence: One drunk driver can put many lives in jeopardy.
JETTISON (JET-ih-sun) verb — to throw overboard; to discard
Sounds like: jet a son
Picture: A jet plane ten thousand feet up and running out of fuel. The
captain tells the flight attendants to open one of the emergency doors and
get rid of all unnecessary cargo in order to make the plane lighter. One of
the passengers offers to throw his teenage son out if it would help.
Sentence: The rocket jettisons its external fuel tanks after launch.
JOCULAR (JOCK-yoo-ler) adj — joking; playful; jesting; witty
Sounds like: Dracula
Picture: Count Dracula is working as a stand-up comedian, using the name
Count Jocular: (“...So he says to me, ‘I can’t take blood from a stone.’ I say,
I know, I’ve been trying for years!”)
Other forms: Jocularity (noun); jocularly (adv)
Connect with: “Jocose” and “jocund,” which have similar meanings to
“jocular.” Just about any unfamiliar word you come across that begins with
“joc” will have something to do with “joke.”
Sentence: Her jocular personality kept everyone loose during the long flight
across the Pacific.
JUBILANT (JOO-bill-ent) adj — filled with joy
Sounds like: gerbil ant
Picture: A gerbil and an ant are very happy to see each other after a long
time. They hug and dance and smile and kiss each other. (“I’m sorry I
haven’t called,” says the gerbil, “but I do about twelve miles a day on that
wheel and it really wears me out.” “I know what you mean,” replies the ant,
“I’ve been working with a bunch of carpenter friends on a wood-frame
house a few blocks from here, and that’s been keeping me busy for months.
But I’m so happy to see you!”)
Other forms: Jubilation (noun); jubilantly (adv)
Sentence: Rescue workers were jubilant when they found someone alive
under the rubble.
JUDICIOUS (joo-DISH-uss) adj — wise; making good decisions
Sounds like: Jew dishes
Picture: Passover is an important holiday for Jewish people. For those who
celebrate it in the most traditional way, special dishes are used for the food
— dishes that are used only for Passover. Imagine a family that’s about to
begin the Passover ceremony. The man says to his wife, “I think you made a
wise decision by taking out your grandmother’s old dishes this year. They
make the table look beautiful!”
Other forms: Judiciousness (noun); judiciously (adv)
Sentence: Even when there isn’t much to do, good employees will make
judicious use of their time.
JUNCTURE (JUNK-sher) noun — point in time, especially a crucial
one; joint or connection
Sounds like: junk chair
Picture: You are one of seven people playing musical chairs. Everyone is
circling the six chairs and the music has just stopped. You look at the two
chairs you have stopped between; one looks okay but the other seems to be
falling apart. It is time to make a crucial decision: do you take a chance
with the junk chair, which is closer, or do you lunge for the sturdier-looking
chair?
Sentence: The bombing of Pearl Harbor was a key juncture in modern
world history.
JUXTAPOSE (juk-stah-POZE) verb — to place side-by-side
Sounds like: just suppose
Picture: A woman in her living room, listening to the interior decorator, who
is holding a painting of a shark and a photograph of the woman’s three
small children. “Just suppose we do this,” he says. (He wants to place the
pictures side-by-side, but when he does so, it looks as though the shark is
about to swallow the children.)
Other form: Juxtaposition (noun)
Sentence: The juxtaposition of sound is important in music.
KINDLE (KIN-dil) verb — to start a fire; ignite; arouse
Sounds like: candle
Picture: A young man is serving dinner to his date, who is seated opposite
him at an elegant table. He lights one of the candles, hoping the romantic
atmosphere will kindle feelings of love in the woman. Instead, he
accidentally knocks the candle over onto the tablecloth, kindling a small but
disruptive fire.
Sentence: Often it is one special teacher who kindles a student’s lifelong
interest in a subject.
KINETIC (kin-ETT-ik) adj — in motion; active
Sounds like: Connecticut
Picture: You’re in a rocket orbiting the Earth. As you pass over the
northeastern United States, you notice the entire region is absolutely still,
except in Connecticut, where everything is in motion. Trees are hopping,
buildings are sliding from block to block, and mountains are spinning like
inverted tops.
Sentence: A falling object has kinetic energy.
LACONIC (luh-KONN-ik) adj — quiet; of few words; terse
Sounds like: Lake Onnic
Picture: A lake hidden in the woods of Maine, where the birds sing one note
at a time. A man rows a boat across the lake; a woman rows her boat from
the opposite side. As they pass, he says, “Morning.” She replies, “Bye.”
And so it is on Lake Onnic, where the people keep things inside and say
very little.
Sentence: A monastery might be the perfect place for a laconic man.
LAMENT (luh-MENT) verb — express sorrow; complain
Sounds like: lamb mint
Picture: A flock of sheep has wandered into town, looking for one of their
lost members. As they pass a restaurant, they notice “Lamb with Mint Jelly”
on the menu. Immediately, their imaginations run wild and they convince
themselves that the lamb on the menu is the lamb they’ve been looking for.
Overcome with grief and sorrow, they all sit on the sidewalk in front of the
restaurant, moaning and wailing.
Other forms: Lament, lamentation (nouns); lamentable (adj); lamentably
(adv)
Sentence: The embarrassing incident at the salad bar was simply a
lamentable mistake.
LANGUISH (LANG-gwish) verb — lose energy or motivation; become
weak or depressed
Sounds like: Lang wish
Picture: A young man named Lang. He graduated from college eight
months ago and has been lying around ever since. Every day he says to his
dog, lying on the floor next to him, “I wish I could find the energy to go get
a job, but I’m just too tired today.”
Connect with: Languor (noun); languorous (adj)
Sentence: The unmotivated team languished in last place all season.
LATENT (LAY-tint) adj — existing but inactive, such as a certain
quality; dormant; invisible
Looks like: Latin
Picture: A woman who learned Latin when she was very young, then
ignored it for the next seventy years. Throughout her adult life, Latin words
and phrases would occasionally race through her mind and roll around in
her mouth, but she would never express them. Her fluency in the language
still resided within her, but she stifled it, so that her Latin remained dormant
— a latent ability.
Other form: Latency (noun)
Sentence: A disease can remain in the body, latent and undetected, for
years.
LAUD (LAWD) verb — praise; worship; extol
Sounds like: lord
Picture: A minister preaching in a church in Alabama. “Laud,” he says in his
Alabama accent, “you are truly great! Laud, we worship and extol you.
Laud, we offer you our praise!”
Other forms: Laudatory, laudable (adj); laudably (adv)
Sentence: The review was completely laudatory -- it didn’t contain a single
negative comment.
LEGACY (LEGG-uh-see) noun — something inherited, either from an
ancestor or from the past itself
Sounds like: leg I see
Picture: The nephew is waiting patiently as his uncle’s will is being read.
Finally it is announced that he has inherited a single leg of an antique chair.
“A leg, I see,” he says.
Note: A legacy could be a physical gift, such as money, or something
abstract, such as knowledge.
Sentence: Her funding of the museum was a legacy to future generations.
LETHARGIC (leh-THAR-jik) adj — tired; sluggish; drowsy
Sounds like: leather chick
Picture: A young chicken is trying to run around the barn, but she’s too
tired. The problem is that when she hatched she was covered with leather
instead of feathers, and the combination of heat and the weight of the
leather has drained her of all her energy.
Other forms: Lethargy (noun); lethargically (adv)
Sentence: He’d intended to mow the lawn, but was too lethargic and simply
fell asleep.
LEVITY (LEV-ih-tee) noun — lightness; playfulness; jocularity
Sounds like: levitate
Picture: A magician is levitating his assistant; that is, he is causing her to
float in mid-air without ropes or wires. Normally, magicians are very
serious about this part of their act, asking the audience to keep silent,
dimming the lights, and behaving as if the assistants were in some sort of
danger. However, this particular magician is quite the opposite. As he
levitates the young woman, he dances around, smiles, and tells jokes.
“Excuse my levity, folks, but I’m just trying to get a rise out of her!”
Sentence: Even the most serious films usually have moments of levity.
LIONIZE (LIE-uh-nize) verb — to put someone onto a pedestal; to treat
with great respect
Sounds like: lion eyes
Picture: In the jungle, a group of lions has decided to honor a leopard for
his courage, strength, and skill. He has what they call “lion eyes,” and has
therefore been chosen to be an honorary lion, making him a great celebrity
in the jungle.
Sentence: Abraham Lincoln is now lionized by members of all political
parties.
LISTLESS (LIST-less) adj — tired; sluggish; lacking drive
Sounds exactly like: list less
Picture: Doctor speaking to a tired-looking patient: “When did you start
feeling this way?” The patient replies, “I found this list in a magazine, ‘Ten
Ways to Stay Energetic.’ But I lost the list last week, and I’ve been
exhausted ever since.”
Other forms: Listlessness (noun); listlessly (adv)
Sentence: People who have trouble sleeping are often listless during the
day.
LOATH (LOATH) adj — reluctant; unwilling
Sounds like: load
Picture: You’ve just finished watering and combing your prize-winning
lawn. A dump truck filled with rocks and boulders pulls up in front of your
house. The driver gets out and tells you that he’s supposed to dump the load
onto your lawn. You, of course, are loath to let him do so.
Sentence: Nancy loved her kids, but she was loath to eat the breakfast
they’d made for her.
LOATHE (LOATH) verb — to hate
Sounds exactly like: loath
So how do you tell “loath” and “loathe” apart? It’s easy: just look at the end
of the word “loathe,” which means “to hate.” Loathe has the letters H-A-TE in it (they’re jumbled a bit, but they’re there). So if you can spell hate,
that’s what it means.
Other forms: Loathsomeness, loathing (nouns); loathsome (adj);
loathsomely (adv)
Sentence: Crimes against children are considered loathsome, even among
other criminals.
LOFTY (LAWF-tee) adj — at a great height; elevated; noble
Sounds like: loft tea
Picture: A 50-story building. At the very top is a loft, being used by a group
of philosophers for a daily tea party. On the street, a man sweeps the
sidewalk and talks to a passerby, who is looking up toward the loft.
“They’re up there drinking fancy tea,” says the man, “and discussing their
lofty ideas.”
Other form: Loftiness (noun) Sentence: He was well into his eighties, yet he
still had lofty goals.
LOQUACIOUS (low-QUAY-shuss) adj — talkative
Sounds like: low gray shoes
Picture: A pair of low gray shoes; both are talking.
Other forms: Loquaciousness (noun); loquaciously (adv)
Sentence: The loquacious lady in the library irritated those trying to read.
LUCID (LOO-sid) adj — easy to understand; transparent; clearthinking
Sounds like: Lou said
Picture: A lecture, featuring a speaker named Lou, has just ended. As
members of the audience leave the auditorium, one of them can be heard to
say, “I understood everything Lou said. It was all so clear.”
Other forms: Lucidity (noun); lucidly (adv)
Sentence: Jerome was surprisingly lucid for someone who had just fallen on
his head.
LUDICROUS (LOO-dih-kruss) adj — absurd; ridiculous
Sounds like: Lou to cross
Picture: A 24-lane super highway. Cars are racing by at 80 mph in every
lane. Lou stands at the edge of the highway, waiting for a break in the
traffic so he can cross. “Lou,” yells a friend from a passing car, “it’s
ludicrous to think you can ever get across. There hasn’t been a break in this
traffic since 1986!” (“Well, isn’t that ludicrous?” Lou says. “Does that guy
really think I can hear him with all these cars going by?”)
Other forms: Ludicrousness (noun); ludicrously (adv)
Sentence: It’s ludicrous to say second-hand smoke is harmless.
LUGUBRIOUS (loo-GOOB-ree-uss) adj — mournful
Sounds like: Lou Goober’s
Picture: Lou Goober’s Funeral Home. Lou is a sad-looking guy.
Other forms: Lugubriousness (noun); lugubriously (adv)
Sentence: Lugubrious music saturated the funeral service.
MAGNANIMOUS (mag-NAN-ih-muss) adj — big-hearted; generous;
forgiving; noble
Sounds like: my Nanny Moose
Picture: Young moose telling her classmates about her grandma, Nanny
Moose, “the most generous, wonderful, kind-hearted moose in the whole
world.”
Other forms: Magnanimously (adv); magnanimity (noun) Note that the root
“magn” means great or large, while “anim” pertains to the mind, soul, or
spirit. Thus, big-hearted.
Sentence: Even after ten years in prison as an innocent man, he was
magnanimous upon his release.
MAGNATE (MAG-net) noun — a person of great power
Sounds like: magnet
Picture: A country populated by paper clips and other small, metal objects.
The country’s ruler is a large, powerful magnet. The magnet has total
influence and control over the citizens.
Sentence: A billionaire real estate magnate, he owned a quarter of the town.
The root “mal” means “bad.” For the next four entries, we will
examine the words and actions of an unpleasant person named Mal.
MALEDICTION (mal-uh-DIK-shun) noun — evil speech; curse
Sounds like: Mal eviction
Picture: Mal hasn’t paid his rent in five months and has received an eviction
notice. The letter explains that he must either pay all back rent within 30
days or be kicked out of his apartment. Furious, he calls his landlady on the
phone and screams and curses at her, and calls her horrible names.
Other form: Maledictory (adj)
Sentence: When angered, he could be a fountain of unkind thoughts and
malediction.
MALEFACTOR (mal-uh-FAK-ter) noun — person who tries to hurt
others; criminal
Sounds like: Mal he faxed her
Picture: Mal is still upset about the eviction notice (see MALEDICTION )
and plans to send his landlady a letter bomb. But instead of mailing the
letter bomb, he decides to fax it to her. Of course, she receives a harmless
letter, the fax machine blows up in Mal’s face, and he grows even angrier
(see MALICE ).
Other form: Malefaction (noun)
Sentence: She’d hoped he would be a benefactor, but he turned out to be the
opposite -- a malefactor.
MALICE (MAL-iss) noun — a desire to cause harm or suffering
Looks like: Mal ice
Picture: Mal is on the roof of his building with a gigantic block of ice,
which he’s about to drop onto his landlady’s head.
Other forms: Malicious (adj); maliciously (adv)
Sentence: He wasn’t just mean; he was malicious.
MALIGN (muh-LINE) verb — to say evil or harmful things about
someone; defame; vilify
Sounds like: Mal lying
Picture: Mal’s landlady has taken him to court for non-payment of rent. On
the witness stand, Mal pretends to be an innocent victim. Instead of
fighting, he decides to malign his landlady by lying about her. He says that
she called him up and said horrible things to him on the phone, faxed him a
letter bomb, and even tried to drop a block of ice on his head.
Other form: Malignant (adj)
Sentence: He was so angered to learn the tumor was malignant, he
maligned the entire hospital staff.
MALLEABLE (MAL-ee-uh-bull) adj — able to be reshaped by force;
pliable; impressionable
Sounds like: mallet-able
Picture: A woman who collects sculpture, but whose taste in art changes
every day. After purchasing dozens of sculptures, only to quickly grow tired
of them, she decides to buy one made of raw clay. She also goes to the
hardware store and gets herself a mallet (little hammer). Now, when she
gets bored with the sculpture’s shape, she beats it with the hammer until it
looks like something else. “It may not be marketable as art,” she says, “but
it sure is malleable.”
Other form: Malleability (noun)
Sentence: She enjoyed working with younger students, while their minds
were still malleable.
MARRED (MARD) adj — spoiled, scratched, blemished
Sounds like: Mars
Picture: The surface of Mars, which is pitted with craters.
Other form: Mar (verb)
Sentence: The new table arrived on time, but was marred by scratches and
dents.
MEAGER (MEE-ger) adj — small in size or amount; thin; weak
Sounds like: me grrr
Picture: A small, frail puppy has just been given his bowl, which contains a
tiny amount of food. As gigantic human feet walk by, the puppy expresses
his anger over the meager dinner: “Me grrrr!”
Other forms: Meagerness (noun); meagerly (adv)
Sentence: The movie promised plenty of action, but the plot was meager.
MEANDER (me-ANN-der) verb — wander in a carefree manner; follow
a winding course; ramble
Sounds like: me and her
Picture: A young man, newly in love, walks down a path along a winding
river, his arm around his girlfriend. They walk slowly, mindlessly, he
singing a song he makes up as they go along:
“Me and her,
My girl Wanda,
We love to wander,
Me and her...”
Other forms: Meandering (adj); meander (noun)
Sentence: Meandering through the woods without a destination was
Nancy’s favorite activity.
MELLIFLUOUS (mel-IF-loo-uss) adj — smooth; sweetly flowing
Sounds like: Mel leaf loose
Picture: Mel is an opera singer. His voice is so smooth, so sweet, that it
makes the trees shiver and lose their leaves. (A man raking the leaves might
say: “I never did like opera!”)
Other forms: Mellifluously (adv); mellifluent (adj)
Sentence: Many people enjoy the mellifluous sound of water running over
rocks.
MENDACITY (men-DAH-sih-tee) noun — a lie; a false statement
Sounds like: mend a city
Picture: Grandpa and Grandson sitting on the porch. Grandpa is telling one
of his famous stories: “It was 1929, I guess. I was living in California, a
place called Menda City. Well, one morning an earthquake hit, and I’m
talking about a real whopper. Every building was down. People had no
place to live, they were living in the streets, businesses had to close. And
here I was, the only person in town who knew how to build anything. So I
started teaching some of the others and we got to fixing things up. I directed
the whole project, which was called ‘Operation Mend A City.’ Get it? Mend
A City. Menda City. See how that worked? Anyway, soon we had all brand
new buildings and life got back to normal, and the people were so grateful,
they made me mayor and wouldn’t let me leave office for the next twenty
years...” (Grandson thinking to himself, “I get sent to my room for telling
stories like this.”)
Other forms: Mendacious (adj); mendaciously (adv)
Sentence: Sarah grew tired of Paula’s mendacities and began to look for a
more honest employee.
METICULOUS (meh-TIK-yoo-luss) adj — very careful about details
Sounds like: me ticklish
Picture: Man who works in a pillow factory. His job is to stuff the feathers
into the pillows. He has to be careful because he’s very ticklish and if he
doesn’t do his job exactly right, he ends up on the floor, laughing. (“But if I
do a good job,” he says, “I get to take a nap on my coffee break.”)
Other form: Meticulously (adv)
Sentence: Brian was fairly neat and careful about most things, but when it
came to his stamp collection, he was absolutely meticulous.
MINUTE (my-NOOT) adj — very small in size
Sounds like: my newt
Think of: A newt, which is a small salamander. A young boy is holding out
his hand and saying to his older sister, “This is my newt.” The sister,
looking at the tiny spot on his hand, thinks he said “This is minute.”
Other form: Minuteness (noun)
Connect with: Minutiae, which means minor details.
Sentence: A deer tick is minute, but it can cause big problems.
MISCONSTRUE (miss-kun-STROO) verb — misunderstand; interpret
incorrectly
Sounds like: Miss Kahn’s Two
Picture: Woman on the telephone at a restaurant called Miss Kahn’s Two.
She’s speaking to a friend who thought they were supposed to meet at Miss
Kahn’s on the other side of town. Here’s how they each misconstrued what
the other was saying:
Woman 1: “I’m going out for dinner tonight.”
Woman 2: “So am I. Where are you going?”
Woman 1: “I’m going to Miss Kahn’s.”
Woman 2: “Really? I’m going to Miss Kahn’s , too!”
Woman 1: “Oh, okay. I’ll see you there!”
Sentence: It’s easy to misconstrue someone’s meaning in an email, so be
careful.
MITIGATE (MITT-uh-gate) verb — make less severe; mollify
Sounds like: middle gate
Picture: Return to the scene of the man cursing the gate (see CASTIGATE
), but now the middle gate has calmed and soothed the angry man, to the
relief of the first gate.
Sentence: Her soft tone had a mitigating effect, and the argument ended.
MOLLIFY (MOLL-ih-fie) verb — lessen anger; soothe; placate
Sounds like: Molly Fly
Picture: Molly Fly follows the Village Fly around; she soothes the feelings
of the people he has upset (see VILIFY ).
Sentence: Police try to mollify a hostage-taker to avoid violence.
MONOLOGUE (MONN-oh-log) noun — a long, uninterrupted speech
Sounds like: man on a log
Picture: A man standing on a log in the woods. His audience is a group of
rabbits, foxes, mice, deer, raccoons, and birds, and they all look very tired
from listening to his endless monologue: “...And so, my friends, let me
remind you once again that we must be careful not to miss the forest for the
trees...”
Sentence: After I ask how he is, I get comfortable and try to wait out his
long monologue.
MOROSE (mawr-OSE) adj — depressed
Sounds like: more oats
Picture: Depressed horse at a bar. The bartender asks, “More oats, pal?”
Other forms: Moroseness (noun); morosely (adv)
Sentence: I was already morose, and four days of rain made it worse.
MUNDANE (mun-DAYNE) adj — ordinary; earthly (not spiritual);
practical; temporary
Sounds like: Monday
Picture: A weekly meeting of ghosts, gathering to discuss important matters
of eternal and supernatural significance. However, one of the ghosts is only
concerned about what day of the week it is. “Monday. Monday? Is today
Monday? Our meetings are supposed to be held on Mondays. Shouldn’t we
check the calendar?” Another responds, “Clarence, we don’t need to worry
about such mundane matters.”
Sentence: Some theoretical scientists have trouble with mundane things,
such as using a washing machine.
MYRIAD (MEER-ee-id) adj — large number; many
Sounds like: Mary had
Think of: The song, “Mary Had A Little Lamb.” Now imagine that this
lamb grew up and had little lambs of her own. And then they all had little
lambs, and so on, so that in a few years, Mary had thousands of little lambs.
(They all still followed her to school. Luckily, she went to a large
university.)
Sentence: Most stores offer a myriad of choices.
NEFARIOUS (neh-FAIR-ee-uss) adj — extremely evil
Sounds like: no ferry is
Picture: A crazed, wicked modern-day pirate who attacks and plunders ferry
boats filled with rush-hour commuters. “No ferry is safe from me,” he
proclaims.
Sentence: The gangster’s nefarious ways shocked his mother, who thought
he was a dentist.
NEGLIGENT (NEG-lih-jint) adj — careless and possibly causing harm;
neglectful
Sounds like: negligee
Picture: Couple having breakfast. Husband is upset because wife
accidentally baked her negligee into the blueberry pie and served it to their
dinner guests last night. He: “How could you be so careless?” She: “It was a
simple mistake. No harm done.” He: “No harm? Paul and Donna’s little boy
almost choked on that thing.” She: “Well, you’d better be careful when you
eat your oatmeal. I’m missing a pair of stockings.”
Other form: Negligence (noun)
Sentence: The driver was charged with negligence for leaving the scene of
an accident.
NEOPHYTE (NEE-oh-fite) noun — beginner
Sounds like: neo-fighter
Picture: A nervous young boxer who is about to get into the ring for the first
time.
Connect with: Any words that begin with “neo.” They always refer to
something that is new.
Sentence: Val was a neophyte, but learned quickly.
NOCTURNAL (nok-TERN-il) adj — active at night
Sounds like: knock, turn, Al
Picture: The local chapter of the “Midnight Club,” a group of people who
only go out late at night. Al is a new member and doesn’t know how to get
into the club’s secret building. A whispering voice from the intercom
system tries to help him: “Give the official Midnight Club knock on the
door, then turn the knob. Got it? Knock, turn, Al!”
Other form: Nocturnally (adv)
Opposite: Diurnal (adj)
Sentence: Bats are nocturnal, so we rarely see them in daylight.
NOSTALGIC (nuh-STAL-jik) adj — wishing for a return to the way
things used to be; longing for the past; homesick
Sounds like: nose tell cheek
Picture: A face with stylish eyeglasses perched on the nose. The nose looks
over to one cheek and says, “I miss the old glasses.”
Other form: Nostalgia (noun)
Sentence: Seeing the pictures of her parents made Jane nostalgic.
NOVELTY (NAH-vul-tee) noun — something new or unusual
Sounds like: novel tea
Picture: A teacup with a novel as a teabag. Or, novels pouring out of a
teapot’s spout.
Other form: novel (adj)
Sentence: The microwave oven is no longer a novelty.
NUANCE (NOO-onts) noun — slight degree; shade of difference
Sounds like: new ants
Picture: A “new ant” lot. The “vehicles” are ants, the salesman and
customer are anteaters. Salesman explains the subtle ways in which this
year’s model differs from last year’s .
Sentence: The nuances of opera aren’t obvious to most of us.
NULLIFY (NUL-ih-fy) verb — remove or cancel all value or force;
negate
Looks like: null if Y (“null” means “having no value”)
Picture: Nellie has the airplane ticket in her hand as she speaks to an airline
representative. He tells her that the ticket is null and void if the letter Y
appears at the top. She looks, and sure enough, there’s a Y. The ticket’s
value has been nullified.
Other forms: Nullification (noun); null (adj)
Sentence: The touchdown was nullified because the team had too many
players on the field.
NURTURE (NER-cher) verb — provide care and support; nourish;
train or educate
Sounds like: nurse chair
Picture: The maternity ward of a hospital. In one corner of the nursery is the
Nurse Chair. In this large rocker, the nurse sits to feed and talk to the
infants, giving them love and nourishment. Here is also where the new
mothers come to learn from this experienced nurturer about caring for their
babies.
Other forms: Nurturer, nurturance (nouns)
Sentence: A beautiful garden needs to be nurtured with water, fertilizer, and
sunshine.
The following nine words begin with the letters “ob”. Because “ob”
sounds like “Hobb,” the pictures for all of the words will involve Mr.
Hobb.
OBDURATE (OB-der-it) adj — stubborn; unyielding
Sounds like: Hobb door 8
Picture: Hobb and his wife are looking for a friend’s apartment. When Hobb
knocks on door #8, a strange man answers. “I’m sorry,” says Hobb’s wife.
“We must have the wrong apartment.” But when the man closes the door,
Hobb knocks on it again, insisting that it’s where his friend lives. No matter
how many times his wife and the man at the door assure him that it’s the
wrong apartment, Hobb refuses to listen and keeps going back to it.
Other forms: Obdurateness (noun); obdurately (adv)
Sentence: He was obdurate about cleanliness and bathed twice a day.
OBJURGATE (OBB-jur-gate) verb — scold; castigate
Looks like: Hobb jury gate
Picture: Hobb is on jury duty. He has just entered the enclosed area of the
courtroom where the jury sits, but he’s forgotten to close the gate. The
judge scolds him: “Mr. Hobb, will you please close the jury gate! This is the
third time I’ve had to remind you! How are you going to remember the
details of this trial if you can’t remember a simple thing like closing the
gate?”
Other form: Objurgation (noun)
Sentence: The radio talk show host lost all patience and thoroughly
objurgated the rude caller.
OBLITERATE (uh-BLIT-er-ate) verb — remove or destroy completely;
erase
Looks like: Hobb litter ate
Picture: Hobb has just dropped some candy wrappers on the ground. When
he rounds the corner he sees a police officer walking toward him. Hobb is
afraid he’ll get a ticket for littering, so he runs back around the corner and
eats the wrappers! By the time the police officer arrives, the litter has been
obliterated.
Other form: Obliteration (noun)
Sentence: The fire obliterated the building and its contents.
OBSCURE (obb-SKYOOR) adj — hazy; unfamiliar; difficult to
understand
Sounds like: Hobb’s cure
Picture: Patient coming out of Dr. Hobb’s office. The patient’s wife
questions him about the visit:
Wife: What did Dr. Hobb say?
Patient: I’m not sure.
Wife: Well, did he say it was curable?
Patient: I think so, but maybe not. He was pretty vague.
Wife: What’s that prescription for?
Patient: I have no idea. He told me, but I didn’t understand.
Wife: Is this Hobb’s Cure? Send your patient home in a fog?
Patient: It might be. How would I tell?
Other forms: Obscurely (adv); obscurity (noun)
Sentence: Most people who are famous in their day eventually fade into
obscurity.
OBSEQUIOUS (ob-SEEK-wee-us) adj — behaving like a meek,
spineless servant; subservient; sycophantic
Sounds like: Hobb’s sequins
Picture: Hobb’s brother and his wife are visiting for a few days. One night,
Hobb walks into the living room and finds his brother, in his wife’s sequin
dress, standing on a chair. Seeing the surprised expression on Hobb’s face,
the brother explains: “She told me to put it on so she can see how it looks
from a distance. I’d do anything for my wife, and this is such a little favor.
Tomorrow afternoon I’m going to wear it to our favorite restaurant so she
can see how it looks in the light there. She wants me to.”
Other forms: Obsequiousness (noun); obsequiously (adv)
Sentence: A dictator will often surround himself with a large, obsequious
staff.
OBSOLETE (obb-so-LEET) adj — no longer usable; outdated
Sounds like: Hobb so late
Picture: Hobb riding in a horse & buggy, arriving for an important meeting.
His co-workers are annoyed at his lateness, and wonder why he’s driving
such an obsolete vehicle.
Other form: Obsolescence (noun)
Sentence: Manual typewriters would be considered obsolete in most
modern offices.
OBSTINATE (OBB-stin-ett) adj — stubborn; refusing to be persuaded
Sounds like: Hobbs ten-eight
Picture: Hobb playing basketball with some of his friends. Hobb insists the
score is ten-eight, even when assured by his opponents and his own
teammates that the score is twelve-six. “Look,” says Hobb, “I don’t care
that you all think it’s twelve-six, or that we have spectators who agree with
you, or that we have the game on videotape and that it shows the score to be
twelve-six. I still say the score is ten-eight. Why should I change my
mind?”
Other forms: Obstinacy (noun); obstinately (adv)
Sentence: Always obstinate, Sue insisted on going to the movies, even
though she had the flu.
OBTUSE (obb-TOOSE) adj — dull; blunt; unintelligent; lacking
sharpness
Sounds like: Hobb two’s
Picture: Hobb, as a young boy, has written “2 + 2 = 97.”
Other forms: Obtuseness (noun); obtusely (adv)
Sentence: His obtuse argument convinced no one.
OBVIATE (OBB-vee-ate) verb — eliminate the need for something;
make unnecessary
Sounds like: Hobb V-8
Picture: Hobb driving a very large, brand new car (with a V-8 engine) past
his old horse & buggy (see OBSOLETE ). Hobb tells the horse that he
doesn’t need him anymore.
Other form: Obviation (noun)
Sentence: Credit and debit cards have almost obviated the need for cash.
OMINOUS (OMM-in-uss) adj — a sign of something unpleasant that’s
about to happen; inauspicious
Sounds like: “Oh, my noose!”
Picture: A condemned man looking at the noose that will soon be placed
around his neck. Growing extremely nervous, he says, “Oh, my noose!”
Other form: Omen (noun); ominously (adv)
Sentence: Centuries ago, people saw comets, eclipses, and other
astronomical events as ominous signs of future trouble.
ONEROUS (OWN-er-uss) adj — burdensome; oppressive
Sounds like: owner Russ
Picture: A man named Russ is scolding a teenager he’s hired to wash and
wax his expensive car: “Come on!” he yells. “Put some effort into it. Make
that radio antenna shine!” (“Wow,” thinks the exhausted young man. “This
owner, Russ, is really creating a burden for me.”)
Other forms: Onerousness (noun); onerously (adv)
Sentence: Once an idealistic nurse, Pat now viewed the profession as an
onerous way to make a living.
OPAQUE (oh-PAKE) adj — too dark or thick for light to pass through
Sounds like: oh cake
Picture: Right after the wedding reception, the newlyweds run to their car to
leave for their honeymoon. They’re surprised to find no “Just Married” sign
on the back or bells hanging from the mirrors. But when they get into the
car they notice the entire windshield has been covered by a thick, white
substance, which they obviously can’t see through. When they look more
closely they say, “Oh, cake!”
Other form: Opacity (noun)
Sentence: The stain was opaque and hid the grain of the wood.
OPPORTUNIST (opper-TOON-ist) noun — someone who takes
advantage of the situation
Sounds like: opera tunist (the man who tunes the instruments at the opera)
Picture: The lead singer faints and the opera tunist runs in to help: “I can
sing! I’ll take his place!”
Other form: Opportunistic (adj)
Sentence: An opportunistic lawsuit attorney, Tom enjoyed witnessing traffic
accidents.
OPTIMIST (OPP-tih-mist) noun — someone who always believes things
will turn out okay
Looks like: a combination of “optometrist” and “mist”
Picture: An optometrist (eye specialist) leading his family on a hike up the
side of a mountain. The mist is heavy and they can’t see anything, but he
insists they’ll make it: “I’ve developed these special glasses that help you
see through mist. If we all put them on, I know we’ll get to the top in a few
minutes. And you know what else? I think there’ll be a picnic lunch waiting
for us up there. And soft chairs to sit on...”
Other forms: Optimistic (adj); optimistically (adv)
Opposite: Pessimist (noun)
Sentence: You have to be an optimist if you’re going to invest your money
in the stock market.
OPULENCE (OPP-yoo-lence) noun — luxury; wealth; riches
Looks like: opal fence (opal is a precious gem)
Picture: We were visiting cousins in a wealthy part of the state. My brother
and I wandered off and walked toward the lake, where we came upon a
magnificent house in the woods. We saw six Rolls Royces parked in the
long, circular driveway. The shrubs were sculpted to look like dollar signs.
But the most amazing sight of all was the fence. It ran around the entire
property and was made completely of opal. It glistened and shone in the
afternoon sun, the brightest, most luxurious thing we had ever seen.
Other forms: Opulent (adj); opulently (adv)
Sentence: To many people from other nations, an average American home
would seem opulent.
PACIFIST (PASS-uh-fist) noun — person who refuses to fight
Sounds like: pass a fist
Picture: Bully standing with his fist raised, threatening a smaller man. But
the smaller guy refuses to fight and walks past the fist.
Other form: Pacify (verb) Connect with: Pacific, pacifier, peaceful
Sentence: It was hard for Einstein, a pacifist, to support the war against
Germany.
PALTRY (PAWL-tree) adj — worthless; insignificant, petty
Sounds like: poultry
Remember Kate and the eggs truck? (See EXTRICATE .) Okay, so the
driver goes to the back of the truck and rescues Kate. But she’s very angry,
and when he tries to explain that the crazed chicken made him drive off so
wildly, Kate says, “Well, that’s a poultry excuse!” (She means ‘paltry,’ or
worthless, but the driver is too scared to correct her.)
Other form: Paltriness (noun) Sentence: Bill could barely survive on his
paltry wages.
PARAGON (PAHR-a-gon) noun — model of excellence; the best
Sounds like: pair of guns
Picture: The world’s most perfect guns.
Sentence: Fred Astaire was a paragon of dance.

HERE ARE A LOT OF OTHER WORDS TO TTRAIN ON, YOU MAY USE RAG OR SOMETHING
ke: a claim
Picture: An insurance company. The newcomer on the staff has just handled
her first claim. Her co-workers, a supportive bunch, are all clapping for her
and offering their congratulations.
Other forms: Acclaim, acclamation (nouns) (Don’t confuse with
“acclimation.”)
Sentence: Mark Twain was a highly-acclaimed author and lecturer.
ACCOLADE (AKK-oh-lade) noun — an award, or praise
Sounds like: echo lad
Picture: A young boy is standing on the edge of a cliff, facing a vertical wall
of rock. He yells wonderful things about himself so that his voice echoes off
the wall and comes back to him.
Sentence: The film received accolades from both the critics and the general
public.
ACQUIESCENT (ak-wee-ESS-ent) adj — reluctantly agreeable;
compliant
Sounds like: agree yes cent
First: Go to COMPLACENT and get that picture in your mind, then come
back here.
Picture: The same penny seated on the bench. The children urge the penny
to play with them. He knows they will never give up, so he gives in and
quietly and reluctantly gets up to play.
Other forms: Acquiesce (verb); acquiescence (noun)
Sentence: Some employers insist on acquiescence and will fire anyone who
rebels.
ACRIMONY (AK-rih-mo-nee) noun — words or behavior filled with
harshness or anger
Looks like: acre money
Picture: Two neighboring farmers arguing over who owns a certain acre of
land.
Farmer 1: “This is my acre. You want it? Give me my money and it’s
yours!”
Farmer 2: “Your money? This is my land, you big, ugly, stupid farmer. Now
get out of here before I say something really acrimonious!”
Other forms: Acrimonious (adj); acrimoniously (adv)
Sentence: Unfortunately, divorce proceedings are often filled with
acrimony.
ADAMANT (ADD-um-ent) adj — refusing to change; stubborn,
unyielding
Looks like: a dam ant
Picture: A giant ant acting as a dam, blocking a stream. The other ants need
the water for their colony. “Come on,” they say, “get out of the way!” But
the large ant refuses to move.
Sentence: She was adamant that her son be home by midnight.
ADROIT (uh-DROYT) adj — skillful in physical activity, or in handling
difficult situations
Looks like: android, which is a human-like robot
Picture: An android playing basketball. He dribbles behind his back and
does reverse lay-ups with either hand. A reporter is impressed: “He has the
best skills I’ve ever seen. And he’s equally adroit at handling the media,
particularly concerning his use of illegal battery packs in the Olympics.”
Sentence: Her adroitness on the balance beam stunned the crowd.
ADVOCATE (AD-vuh-kate) verb — support; plead for; speak on behalf
of
Sounds like: ad for Kate
Picture: Kate is seeking her first job. She’s smart and well-educated, but has
no experience. Kate’s aunt, publisher of the local newspaper, has always
encouraged Kate. She begins running ads, telling the reader how talented
and reliable Kate is. “I strongly advocate your hiring her” says each ad.
Other forms: Advocate, advocacy (nouns)
Sentence: Lawyers advocate for their clients.
AFFABLE (AFF-uh-bull) adj — friendly; easygoing
Looks like: a fable
Think of: Aesop’s Fables. Picture Aesop, a Greek man who lived about 500
B.C. Imagine him as a friendly, outgoing person, standing in the center of
the village and greeting people as they pass by.
Other forms: Affability (noun); affably (adv)
Sentence: Most television news anchors appear to be affable, at least on the
air.
AFFIRMATION (aff-er-MAY-shun) noun — positive statement;
assertion; agreement
Sounds like: a firm Asian
Picture: A muscular man from the Orient being interviewed by a TV news
reporter. “We’ve heard,” says the reporter, “that you plan to break the world
weightlifting record by lifting a Toyota filled with Sumo wrestlers. Is this
true?” “Yes,” replies the Asian man. “And that includes a full tank of gas
and maps in the glove compartment.” Looking into the TV camera, the
reporter says, “Up until now it had been just another unfounded rumor. But
now we’ve received affirmation.”
Other forms: Affirm (verb); affirmative (adj); affirmatively (adv)
Sentence: The prime minister saw her re-election as an affirmation of her
policies.
ALIENATE (AIL-ee-uh-nate) verb — to push someone away, or cause
him to separate from people
Sounds like: Alien Nate
Picture: Nate, a Martian, is standing apart from a group of former Earthling
friends. One says, “We don’t want him around anymore. He’s weird. It’s
like he’s from another planet or something.”
Other forms: Alien, alienation (nouns)
Sentence: People who think they know everything often alienate their
friends.
ALOOF (uh-LOOF) adj — detached; apart; indifferent
Sounds like: a roof
Picture: Person on the roof of a house, refusing to even look at the people
below. He has completely removed himself from the group.
Sentence: He always sat alone, so people assumed he was aloof.
ALTRUISTIC (al-troo-ISS-tik) adj — unselfish; caring
Sounds like: Al True’s Wish Stick
Picture: A man named Al True has a “wish stick,” or magic wand. He uses it
to help people by giving them what they need. Other form: Altruism (noun)
Sentence: Most religions teach that altruism is good.
AMBIDEXTROUS (am-bee-DEX-truss) adj — able to use both hands
with equal skill
Sounds like: Bambi Dextrous
Picture: A baseball pitcher named Bambi Dextrous who pitches with both
hands at the same time.
Sentence: Juggling must be easier for people who are ambidextrous.
Connect with: Dexterity
AMBIGUOUS (am-BIG-yoo-uss) adj — unclear; vague; having several
possible interpretations
Sounds like: a big U.S.
Picture: Mother and son are standing at the front door. Son is about to leave
on a trip.
Mom: So where exactly are you going?
Son: Somewhere.
Mom: Somewhere where?
Son: Somewhere in the U.S.
Mom: You’re being very vague. It’s a big U.S. out there.
Other forms: Ambiguity (noun); ambiguously (adv)
Sentence: When questioned by police, the suspect gave ambiguous answers.
AMBIVALENCE (am-BIV-uh-lence) noun — indecision; feeling of being
pulled in two directions
Looks like: Val inside ambulance (ambiVALence)
Picture: Val is about to have a baby. She’s gone into labor while her
husband is at work. She’s called for an ambulance to take her to the
hospital, but now that she’s inside the ambulance she’s having second
thoughts about going without her husband: “Wait! Let’s give him a few
more minutes. No, we should go. I’m in labor. Okay, take me to the
hospital. No, wait! Maybe he’ll get here soon...”
Other forms: Ambivalent (adj); ambivalently (adv)
Sentence: The house had been in the family for generations, so they were
ambivalent about selling it.
AMELIORATE (uh-MEEL-ee-or-ate) verb — to make an unpleasant
situation better; to improve
Sounds like: a meteor ate
Picture: A house was overrun with two-headed snakes. Suddenly, a meteor
swooped down and gobbled up all the snakes. So a meteor ate the snakes
and improved the situation in the house.
Sentence: The terrible working conditions were ameliorated only by her
friendly co-workers.
AMITY (AM-ih-tee) noun — friendship
Sounds like: Emma tea
Picture: A lady named Emma who invites neighbors and passersby over to
her house for tea every day. Visitors are lined up at the front door, while a
steady stream of people holding teacups flows from the back door and spills
out onto the back lawn. A smiling Emma says, “I’m just trying to be
friendly.”
Connect with: Amicable (adj), amigo (Spanish)
Sentence: Complete amity among bordering nations is always difficult.
AMORPHOUS (ay-MORF-uss) adj — without form or shape
Sounds like: “Yay, more for us!”
Picture: A mother bringing her three children bowls of some shapeless food.
One of the kids says, “Yay, more for us!” One of the others says, “Yeah, but
more what?”
Sentence: Liquid water is amorphous; it always takes on the shape of its
container.
Connect with: Metamorphosis
ANALOGOUS (uh-NAHL-uh-guss) adj — similar
Sounds like: an alligator
Picture: Two alligators that look exactly alike.
Other form: Analogy (noun)
Sentence: A camera’s aperture is analogous to the pupil of the eye.
ANARCHY (AN-arr-kee) noun — a lack of order; chaos
Sounds like: an ark key
Picture: The animals on Noah’s Ark are running wild. Noah, standing on the
pier, has somehow been locked out. He’s yelling, “My key! Please,
someone give me an ark key! This is chaos!”
Other form: Anarchist (noun)
Sentence: Without laws and rules, there would be anarchy everywhere.
ANATHEMA (uh-NATH-a-ma) noun — a religious curse, or the thing or
person being cursed
Looks like: an anthem
Picture: A man who, many years ago, fled his native country because of the
cruel government in power there. Now, as an old man, he finds a record in
his attic. When he plays the record, he hears, for the first time in four
decades, the national anthem of his former home. The song reminds him of
the cruel dictator still in power and he spits on the record, cursing the
words, the dictator, and the entire government. The anthem is now
anathema to him.
Sentence: For many people in India, the killing of cows is anathema.
ANTAGONISTIC (an-tag-uh-NISS-tik) adj — in hostile competition;
opposing
Sounds like: ant tag on his stick
Picture: An ant holding a stick; on the stick hangs a tag that says, “I’ll fight
anybody, any time. How about right now?”
Other forms: Antagonist, antagonism (nouns); antagonize (verb)
Sentence: Political parties are often antagonistic toward each other.
ANTIQUATED (ANN-tih-quay-ted) adj — too old to be useful;
outdated; obsolete
Sounds like: Auntie Katie
Picture: A very, very old woman named Auntie Katie. She lives in an old
house with an old dog and old furniture. Every single thing in Auntie
Katie’s life is antiquated.
Connect with: Antique, antiquity (nouns)
Sentence: The wiring in some old houses is too antiquated to handle
modern appliances.
ANTITHESIS (ann-TITH-ih-sis) noun — opposite
Sounds like: anTEETHesis
Picture: The teeth in your mouth. For every tooth, there is an opposite tooth.
For example, for every upper tooth, there is a corresponding (opposite)
lower tooth.
Other form: Antithetical (adj)
Sentence: Ignorance is the antithesis of knowledge.
APATHY (APP-uh-thee) noun — lack of interest or concern
Sounds like: apple tree
Picture: George Washington’s father is questioning him about the cherry
tree that has been chopped down. Young George, arms folded, replies: “I
cannot tell a lie. I really don’t care who chopped down the cherry tree.”
Other form: Apathetic (adj)
Sentence: Many citizens are apathetic about elections and don’t bother to
vote.
APEX (AY-pex) noun — top; highest point; summit
Looks like: ape x
Picture: King Kong (the ape) climbing the Empire State Building. He’s
trying to get to a large letter “X” which is perched on top of the building’s
antenna (the highest point). As he climbs, he thinks to himself, “This will be
the apex of my career.”
Sentence: It took the mountain-climbers four days to reach the apex.
APPEASE (uh-PEEZ) verb — calm; pacify
Sounds like: peas
Picture: A young child who’s upset because he’s hungry. He calms down
when his mother gives him some peas (this requires a little extra
imagination). Or, just think of “please” or “a peace,” all of which sound like
appease and suggest its meaning.
Other form: Appeasement (noun)
Sentence: Management tried to appease the strikers with a small salary
increase.
ARBITRARY (ARR-bih-treh-ree) adj — selected by random choice and
without solid reason
Sounds like: our bee, Jerry
Picture: A giant glass tank called the Lost Bee Shelter. A young man is
looking into the tank at thousands of flying bees. He says to the attendant,
“I think that’s him. That’s our bee, Jerry.”
Other form: Arbitrarily (adv)
Sentence: Your selection of a seat in a nearly empty theater is somewhat
arbitrary.
ARCANE (ar-KANE) adj — secret; mysterious
Sounds like: our cane
Picture: A child sits at his grandparents’ dinner table. In the corner of the
room is a wooden cane with strange words and markings on it. When the
boy asks what it all means, his grandmother says mysteriously, “Oh, that’s
just our cane. Don’t worry about it. You wouldn’t understand anyway.”
Sentence: The walls of the pyramid were covered with arcane symbols.
ARCHAIC (arr-KAY-ik) adj — old; antiquated
Sounds like: our cake
Picture: A very old cake, covered with cobwebs. One person asks, “Where
did we get our cake?” The other person answers, “From Auntie Katie,
where else?” (See ANTIQUATED .)
Sentence: Many words and expressions used in the nineteenth century seem
archaic to us now.
ARROGANT (AHR-uh-gint) adj — acting superior, obnoxious, smug,
or rude
Looks like: arrow can’t
Picture: It’s the mid-1800s, somewhere in Oklahoma. A rifle salesman is
making a presentation to some Navaho Indians. “You’re still using those
bows and arrows for hunting?” he asks. “This rifle fires bullets. Do you
people know what bullets are?” The Navaho look at each other, annoyed but
patient. The salesman continues: “A bullet can take down a buffalo from
five hundred yards. An arrow can’t! A bullet can fly faster than a hawk. An
arrow can’t! And a bullet can be kept in your pocket or pouch. An arrow
can’t! You have to buy my rifles and bullets, because they’re better than
anything you’re using.”
Other forms: Arrogance (noun); arrogantly (adv)
Sentence: The trick is to be self-confident without being arrogant.
ARTICULATE (ar-TICK-u-let) adj — able to speak clearly and
effectively
Looks like: Artie Kool-Aid
Picture: A man named Artie holding a pitcher, giving a speech: “...and let
me assure you, dear fellows, that it would be a veritable impossibility for
me to be so eloquent without this extraordinary thirst-quenching
concoction, Kool-Aid.”
Other forms: Articulation (noun), articulate (verb)
Sentence: To be effective, a preacher must be articulate.
ASCENDANCE (uh-SEN-dence) noun — domination; controlling
power
Sounds like: a sun dance
Picture: This Indian tribe has been doing rain dances for many centuries.
But now it’s been raining for seven weeks and they need the sun to dry up
the water. So they create and perform a sun dance. After the dancers have
been performing for several minutes, the clouds disappear and the sun
comes out. The tribe, at least on this occasion, seems to have gained
ascendance over the sun.
Other forms: Ascendant (adj); ascendancy (noun)
Sentence: The dictator’s ascendance to power was sudden and unstoppable.
ASCETIC (uh-SET-ik) noun — person who rejects physical comfort and
luxury for self-discipline
Sounds like: acidic (containing a high level of acid)
Picture: A man of great religious faith has decided to leave his comfortable
life behind in order to reach a higher level of spiritual growth. He gives
away all of his possessions, including his house, donates his savings to
charity, and begins to walk across the desert. Many days later, his shoes
worn through and his clothes in tatters, he reaches the end of the desert and
finds himself at a gas station. A mechanic, recognizing the religious man’s
obvious need for a drink, offers him a cold can from the vending machine.
However, the man sees the soft drink as a luxury, an aspect of the physical
world no longer part of his life, and rejects it, choosing instead to drink
from a nearby bucket of battery acid. Surprised, the mechanic says, “Why,
that’s downright acidic!” “I think you mean ‘ascetic,’” says the religious
man, between sips.
Other forms: Ascetic (adj); asceticism (noun); ascetically (adv)
Sentence: Some religious leaders of the past believed the life of an ascetic
led to spiritual growth.
ASPERITY (uh-SPERR-ih-tee) adj — roughness; harshness; irritability
Sounds like: a spirit tea
Picture: A group of ghosts (spirits) meeting for their afternoon tea. One of
the spirits gets extremely agitated and angry after drinking his tea, and
begins yelling at his companions. (One of the other ghosts comments: “He
really needs to start drinking decaffeinated. This regular stuff just haunts
him.”)
Connect with: Aspersion (noun) — a defaming remark
Sentence: No matter how comfortable, everyone encounters asperity at
some time.
ASSAIL (uh-SAIL) verb — attack with words or force
Sounds like: a sail (or, a sale)
Picture: The husband comes home with another new sail for the boat. The
wife attacks: “What? You spent more money on that stupid boat? You
haven’t bought yourself a new shirt in six years, but the sailboat is always
right in style! What excuse do you have this time?” Husband: “It was on
sale.”
Other forms: Assailable (adj); assailant (noun)
Sentence: The university president was assailed for his apparently racist
remarks.
ASSIDUOUS (uh-SIJ-yoo-us) adj — persistent; hard-working; diligent;
attentive to detail
Sounds like: a Sid, U.S.
Picture: A devoted worker at the post office has noticed a letter sent from
overseas. The envelope is addressed simply, “Sid, U.S.” The worker,
determined to see that the letter is delivered to the right person, has
gathered every telephone directory in the country and is carefully going
through each one page-by-page, making a list of every Sid in the U.S. “A
Sid, U.S.,” he says. “If I’m persistent and pay close attention to detail, I’ll
find him. Or her.”
Other forms: Assiduousness (noun); assiduously (adv)
Sentence: Re-opening an old murder case requires the investigator to be
assiduous.
ASSUAGE (uh-SWAYJ) verb — relieve; ease; pacify
Sounds like: as wage
Picture: A fairy godmother appears to a man who is seated at a table piled
high with bills. The man is obviously miserable because he has no money.
The fairy offers to pay the man a salary (“as wage”) for the work he’s doing
in paying the bills! The man is thrilled, for she has assuaged his anxiety.
Sentence: Marvin bought his wife a DVD player to assuage her anger over
his remark about the cake.
ASTUTE (uh-STOOT) adj — wise; insightfully clever; shrewd
Sounds like: a stew
Picture: As his students prepare their dishes, the cooking teacher strolls
around the kitchen, peeking into each pot and casserole. He’s puzzled by
the contents of one stove-top pot, but after quickly scanning the ingredients,
he looks the young chef straight in the eye and says, “A stew.” And of
course, he’s right.
Other forms: Astutely (adv); astuteness (noun)
Sentence: Carol has an astute business sense.
ATROPHY (AH-troh-phee) verb — waste away; wither
Looks like: a trophy
Picture: A trophy with a figure on top. The figure’s arms or legs are melting.
(Note: The word atrophy usually refers to the way muscles waste away
when they haven’t been used.)
Sentence: Within a week after the accident, his muscles had begun to
atrophy.
AUDACIOUS (aw-DAY-shuss) adj — brazen; brash; nervy
Sounds like: all day shhh’s
Picture: A librarian, referring to a boy talking at a nearby table: “‘Shhhh,’ I
say, ‘please Shhhh,’ all day ‘Shhhh’s’ and he just keeps talking. What
brashness! What nerve! What audacity!” The boy turns to the librarian and
says, “Shhhh! I’m trying to read!”
Other forms: Audacity (noun); audaciously (adv)
Sentence: He had the audacity to demand a refund on pants he’d bought
two years ago.
AUGMENT (awg-MENT) verb — make larger; increase
Looks like: Aug. mint
Picture: The gardener has been trying to grow mint for months, with just a
few plants to show for her hard work. Then, on August 1st, she discovers
her entire backyard covered with mint. “Wow!” she says. “This Aug. mint is
quite an increase from the July mint!”
Other form: Augmentation (noun)
Sentence: Phyllis decided to augment her income by taking a second job.
AUSPICIOUS (aw-SPIH-shuss) adj — taking place under promising
conditions; likely to succeed
Sounds like: our space shoes
Picture: Two astronauts have just landed on the planet Neptune. Looking
out the window of their spaceship, they see that they are surrounded by a
frozen lake. In order to accomplish their mission, they must cross the ice
and return to the spaceship quickly. One astronaut thinks it’s going to be
very difficult. The other pulls out two pairs of special boots fitted with large
ice skate blades. “This will be easy,” he says. Then, gesturing to the boots,
“Our space shoes!”
Sentence: It was an auspicious beginning to the playoffs when the team
won the first two games.
AUSTERE (aw-STEER) adj — stern; plain; without luxuries
Sounds like: our steer
Picture: A rancher giving a tour of his ranch: “And this is our steer. He lives
in this simple barn, eats plain dry grass, and frowns a lot. We’re not sure
why.”
Other forms: Austerity (noun); austerely (adv)
Sentence: The dentist’s austere waiting room made children even more
nervous.
AVARICE (AH-ver-iss) noun — greed
Looks like: Ava rice
Picture: A woman named Ava seated at a table, her arms around a mound of
rice. She won’t share the rice with anyone. She’s greedy.
Sentence: Success can lead to either great generosity or avarice.
AVERSE (uh-VERSE) adj — feeling repelled; wanting to avoid
Looks exactly like: a verse
Picture: A young boy running from the classroom, screaming: “Poetry! I
can’t listen to poetry! Not even a verse!”
Note: Don’t confuse with “adverse,” which means unfavorable. Strong rains
produce adverse conditions for golf. A golfer may be averse to playing in
the rain.
Sentence: She was averse to having such a large party at her house.
BALEFUL (BAIL-full) adj — harmful; menacing
Sounds like: bale fall
Picture: Gigantic, heavy bales of hay falling from the sky. One of the bales
is about to fall onto someone.
Other form: Balefully (adv)
Sentence: A hungry wolf is a baleful sight to campers.
BANAL (ba-NAHL) adj — boring; trite; insipid
Looks like: ban Al
Picture: A club’s members want to keep Al from joining. “I say we ban Al,”
says one. “He’s boring.”
Other form: Banality (noun)
Sentence: The script was filled with banal and predictable scenes.
BEGUILE (be-GYLE) verb — to cheat or deceive, usually through
charm; to amuse
Sounds a little like: beg a while
Picture: Two children plotting to talk their parents into something. The
older child says to the younger, “Let’s try this. You go out there and beg a
while. They love when you do that. They think it’s cute. They’ll laugh,
they’ll say, ‘Come here and give us a hug, you cute thing,’ and then they’ll
say yes.”
Other forms: Beguiling (adj); beguilingly (adv)
Connect with: Guile, which means deceitful shrewdness.
Sentence: At first, she was beguiled by his charm and attention.
BELIE (be-LIE) verb — to give an impression that is the opposite of the
way things really are; to misrepresent
Looks like: bee lie
Picture: A scientist is studying the daily routines of a bumble bee, keeping
careful records of what the bee does and when. Like all bees, this one is
energetic and hard-working, but also like other bees, this one enjoys a good
practical joke. Every day at one o’clock in the afternoon, the bee lies down
on a tiny toy couch in the scientist’s office and pretends to watch All My
Children. The scientist, of course, is surprised by the bee’s behavior and
notes it each day in his journal: “Every day at one, the bee lies down on the
couch and watches television. Where is the industrious busy bee we’ve all
heard about?”
Sentence: Her calm manner belied a fierce ambition.
BELLIGERENT (buh-LIJ-er-int) adj — having a strong tendency to
argue and fight
Sounds like: bell ledger rent
Picture: The landlord is standing at your door, holding his rent ledger and
ringing a large bell. By the time you open the door, he’s rung the bell three
more times. “Where’s your rent?” he asks angrily, waving his ledger in the
air. “It was due an hour ago. I’m going to stand here and ring this bell and
wave this ledger until I have your rent. And if you don’t like it, you can just
step outside and I’ll punch you so hard you won’t remember to say ouch.
Come on out here, you miserable lowlife deadbeat!”
Other forms: Belligerence (noun); belligerently (adv)
Note: The root “belli” has to do with fighting or war. Connect this word
with “bellicose,” which has almost the same meaning.
Sentence: The angry customer’s belligerence made it hard for the
saleswoman to remain polite.
BENEDICTION (ben-neh-DIK-shun) noun — good wishes; a blessing
Sounds like: Benedict shine
Picture: Benedict, who always says good and encouraging things to people,
so that they come away from him shining with happiness. Note: Any word
beginning with the prefix “bene-” has a positive meaning, and usually refers
to a good result (or bene fit).
Sentence: The minister delivered a benediction before the ceremony.
BENEVOLENT (beh-NEV-oh-lent) adj — kindhearted; good-natured;
generous
Sounds like: Ben Elephant
Picture: A kindly old elephant named Ben who lives at the zoo. He saves the
peanuts that visitors give him and takes them to the other animals late at
night. “That Ben Elephant,” says one bear to another, “what a nice guy!”
Other forms: Benevolence (noun); benevolently (adv)
Sentence: Miserable and greedy for most of his life, the man became
benevolent during his last years.
BENIGN (beh-NINE) adj — gentle; kind-hearted; mild
Sounds like: be nine
Picture: A machine that measures a person’s kindness level. Its meter ranges
from 1 to 9, with 9 designated as “extremely kind and gentle.” A girl places
the electrode helmet on her head, pulls the lever, and prays, “Oh, I hope I’m
a nine! Be nine! Please be nine!”
Other form: Benignly (adv)
Sentence: Albert had a reputation for being a bully, but deep down he was a
benign soul.
BEQUEATH (be-KWEETH) verb — to leave behind or hand down
through a will; transmit
Rhymes with: beneath
Picture: The reading of a will. “...And to my son, Robert, who always
thought my possessions were beneath him, I bequeath something that is
beneath him: the rug on the floor in this room.”
Other forms: Bequeathal, bequest (nouns)
Sentence: Many people bequeath large sums of money to their favorite
charities.
BLIGHT (BLITE) noun — decay; disease; widespread death
Looks like: B light
Picture: An entire orchard of fruit trees has died. A scientist hired to study
the situation concludes: “The problem is too much B-light. B-light is that
part of the light spectrum emitted by car headlights. These trees were too
close to the road, and the headlights wiped them out.”
Sentence: When a main crop is hit with blight, widespread famine may
result.
BOLSTER (BOLE-ster) verb — to support; to reinforce
Sounds like: bowl stir
Picture: A mixing bowl, filled with cake batter, is talking to the wooden
spoon: “Come on spoon, stir that batter. I know you can do it!” (The batter
joins in: “Hey, you’re really bolstering the spoon’s confidence! This cake
may just pan out after all!”)
Sentence: Nancy’s goal of a scholarship was bolstered by an unexpected A
in Biology.
BOMBAST (BOMM-bast) noun — speech or writing intended to
impress the audience; pompous
Sounds like: bomb blast
Picture: A convention of scientists who specialize in explosives. The
speaker is talking about his latest discovery: “Ladies and gentlemen,
without bragging I must tell you that this invention will change the world.
My bomb fits in the palm of the hand, yet one such device produces a blast
that can destroy all of North America and rattle teacups in London. It is,
probably, the greatest single advance in the history of mankind, if I may say
so...”
Other form: Bombastic (adj)
Sentence: The newcomer’s bombast offended the town’s more mildmannered residents.
BREVITY (BREV-uh-tee) noun — briefness; conciseness
Sounds like: Bravo Tea
Picture: Tea that takes just a few seconds to make. Also, when people drink
Bravo Tea, they say what they have to say in very few words. It gives them
the gift of brevity.
Sentence: Employers are busy people, so brevity is important in a resume.
BUMPTIOUS (BUMP-shuss) adj — pushy; obnoxiously self-assertive
Sounds like: bump chess
Picture: A man and woman are playing chess. The man is annoying, pushy,
and rude. Whenever he captures one of his opponent’s pieces, he bumps it
off the board and yells out, “Bump chess! I love this game! And I really
love winning!”
Sentence: The bumptious car salesman scared customers away.
CACOPHONY (kuh-KAH-fuh-nee) noun — harshness of sound;
opposite of harmony
Looks like: a combination of “cocoon” and “symphony”
Picture: A cocoon hanging from the branch of a tree. Inside, a caterpillar on
his way to becoming a butterfly has decided to make good use of the time
by learning to play the violin. On this particular day, the caterpillar is
playing an entire symphony, although not very well. Outside, birds and
squirrels are covering their ears, trying to escape the cacophony coming
from the cocoon.
Other form: Cacophonous (adj) Note: The root “phone” has to do with
sound, as in “telephone.”
Sentence: New visitors to the rainforest are struck by the cacophony.
CAJOLE (cuh-JOLE) verb — to fool with flattery or false promises;
coax; deceive
Sounds like: cage hole
Picture: A large cat sits outside a parakeet’s cage. The cage has a small hole
at the top. Inside, a parakeet is perched on a swing. “You have the most
beautiful feathers,” says the cat. “The colors are magnificent. Why don’t
you squeeze out through that hole so I can get a better look at you?”
Other forms: Cajolery, cajolement (nouns)
Sentence: The con-artist cajoled them out of their money.
CANDOR (CANNED-er) noun — honesty; frankness
Looks like: can door
Picture: A door on stage. The door is trying out for a dance job. The
producer, a tin can, is delivering the bad news with as much honesty as
possible.
Other forms: Candid (adj); candidly (adv)
Sentence: Political candor is refreshing.
CAPACIOUS (cuh-PAY-shuss) adj — large; roomy; spacious
Sounds like: car patients
Picture: A doctor who uses a car as her office. She explains: “This car has
an incredible amount of space inside. The front seat is a waiting area and
the back seat has three separate examining rooms.”
Other forms: Capaciousness (noun)
Sentence: He needed a capacious apartment for his stuffed moose
collection.
CAPITULATE (kuh-PITCH-oo-late) verb — surrender; yield
Looks like: capital late
Picture: The government of a small nation has just been overthrown by a
neighboring country. In the capital city of the overthrown nation, the
president is speaking with his military commander, who has just arrived
with troops. “I’m sorry,” he says, “but you got here too late. I was forced to
surrender.”
Other form: Capitulation (noun)
Sentence: The police refused to capitulate to the demands of the kidnapper.
CAPRICIOUS (cuh-PREE-shuss) adj — unpredictable
Looks like: cap riches
Picture: A man standing in front of a slot machine in a casino. He puts a
quarter into the slot, pulls the handle, and holds his cap under the chute,
waiting hopefully for his riches. He doesn’t know if or when it will happen,
but he’s sure it could happen.
Other forms: Capriciously (adv); caprice (noun)
Sentence: It’s hard to plan a vacation when the weather can be so
capricious.
CASTIGATE (CASS-tig-ate) verb — scold; punish
Sounds like: curse the gate
Picture: Someone scolding a gate.
Synonyms: Admonish, berate, censure, chasten, chastise, denounce,
disparage, objurgate, rebuke, reprimand, reprove, upbraid.
Sentence: The angry judge castigated the lawyer.
CAUSTIC (CAWSE-tik) adj — burning, either with chemicals or
sarcasm
Sounds like: caw stick
Picture: A crow crying (“caw, caw”) because it has been burned by a stick
coated with acid.
Sentence: The teacher’s caustic criticism embarrassed his student.
CELERITY (seh-LEHR-ih-tee) noun — speed
Looks like: celery
Picture: A stalk of celery moving at high speed. The celery might be in the
form of a race car zooming around the track.
Connect with: Accelerate.
Sentence: Drivers stuck in traffic may dream of celerity.
CENSURE (SEN-shur) verb — to criticize
Sounds like: send ashore
Picture: A man wading to shore from a large sailing ship. He is the
navigator of the ship, and has been sent ashore by the captain and the rest of
the crew because they blame him for getting them lost at sea. They have
sent him to ask directions. As he walks, they shout at him from the ship:
“You couldn’t find your way across a bathtub!” “Try not to miss the beach!”
Note: Don’t confuse with “censor,” which means “to delete objectionable
material.”
Sentence: The newspaper editorial censured the governor for her budget
proposals.
CHASTEN (CHAY-sen) verb — punish; discipline; castigate
Sounds like: chase sin
Picture: An old-fashioned, religious mother who is trying to discipline her
mischievous son: “I’ll keep scolding and punishing until I’ve chased the sin
right out of you!”
Connect with: Chastise. Don’t confuse with “chaste,” which means “pure.”
Sentence: Harshly chastened by his owner, the dog hid under the porch for
three days.
CHASTISE (CHASS-tize) verb — scold; punish; castigate
Sounds like: chase ties
Picture: The same man who yelled at the gate (see CASTIGATE ) is now
chasing ties around the yard, scolding them.
Sentence: Roberta chastised her son for his low grades.
CHOLER (KAH-ler) noun — anger
Sounds like: collar
Picture: A dog who’s angry about the ridiculous collar he has to wear.
Other form: Choleric (adj)
Sentence: Frustration and choler swept through the prison population.
CIRCUMSCRIBE (SIR-kum-skribe) verb — draw a line around; define
limits; confine; restrict
Looks like: circus crib
Picture: The baby elephant is headed for a career in the circus, but she has a
lot to learn. Her trainer puts the elephant in a baby crib and places the crib
inside one of the circus rings. The elephant may climb out of the crib, but
may not go outside the circle. Her movements have been circumscribed.
Other forms: Circumscribable (adj); circumscription (noun)
Note: The prefix “circum” means “around.” Think about the following
words, and look up the ones you don’t know: circumcise, circumference,
circumlocution, circumnavigate, circumspect, circumvent.
Sentence: The movements of a fish in an aquarium are circumscribed by the
size of the tank.
CIRCUMSPECT (SIR-kum-spekt) adj — cautious
Sounds like: search inspect
Picture: The chipmunk peeks out from her home — a hole in the trunk of a
hollow tree. She must go out for food, but before leaving the safety of her
tree, she carefully and methodically looks around (searches and inspects) to
see if a predator is waiting to snatch her.
Other form: Circumspection (noun)
Sentence: In some situations, it’s wiser to be circumspect rather than bold.
CLEMENCY (KLEM-en-see) noun — mercy
Sounds like: clam in sea
Picture: A clam as judge presiding over an undersea courtroom. The
defendant is a mussel accused of fixing races at the snail track. Judge: “The
maximum sentence for this crime is one weekend on a dry beach filled with
small children and biology teachers. But it’s your first offense, so I’ll show
clemency. I hereby sentence you to eight hours of voluntary service
working with oil spill survivors.”
Other form: Clement (adj)
Sentence: The remorseful defendant begged the judge for clemency.
CLOISTER (CLOY-ster) noun — secluded or isolated from the outside
world; also, a place of seclusion
Sounds like: closed oyster
Picture: A giant closed oyster. Someone is hiding inside the shell.
Sentence: During the trial, the jury remained cloistered in a motel.
COALESCE (KO-uh-less) verb — unite; grow together
Sounds like : coal S
Picture: A man puts some charcoal into his barbecue grill, throws in a
match, and goes into the house. When he returns, he sees that the coals have
come together to form a large letter “S” at the bottom of the grill. “Wow,
when they say it makes a Super Fire, they aren’t kidding!”
Other forms: Coalescent (adj); coalescence (noun)
Sentence: Astronomers believe stars coalesce from huge clouds of gas.
COERCE (ko-ERSE) verb — to force someone by threatening or
physically overpowering him
Sounds like: course
Picture: A young Army private has to run an obstacle course, which requires
him to climb a flaming wall, swim across a pond filled with alligators, and
run through a field of rattlesnakes. He’s reluctant to run the course, but his
sergeant forces him with threats of physical harm, verbal abuse, isolation,
double shifts in the mess hall, and courtmartial.
Other forms: Coercion (noun); coercive (adj); coercively (adv)
Sentence: Steve tried to coerce his younger brother into mowing the lawn.
COMPLACENT (kum-PLAY-sent) adj — self-satisfied; unconcerned
Sounds like: come play, cent
Picture: A penny sits on a park bench. Two small children call to him,
“Come play, Cent!” But the penny, smiling, hands behind head, eyes closed,
is too self-satisfied to move from the bench.
Other forms: Complacence, complacency (nouns)
Sentence: When facing a less-talented opponent, it’s easy to grow
complacent and blow a big game.
COMPLIANT (kum-PLY-ent) adj — following someone else’s demands;
conforming; obeying
Looks almost exactly like: complaint
Picture: The man working in the complaint department of a store has put up
a sign over his desk that says, “COMPLAINT.” His boss has walked by
nine or ten times, and each time has told the man to change the spelling to
“COMPLIANT.” Even though he knows it’s incorrect, the employee gives
in and makes the change. So now he works directly under a sign that says,
“COMPLIANT.”
Other forms: Compliance (noun); comply (verb)
Sentence: Employers who are domineering usually try to hire compliant
people.
COMPOSURE (kum-POE-zher) noun — calmness; equanimity
Sounds like: Camp Pozer
Picture: A summer camp, called Camp Pozer, where the counselors and
campers lie down all day long. Everyone is always calm and relaxed.
Awards are given out for the longest naps.
Other form: Compose (verb)
Sentence: The bride tried to maintain her composure as the wedding cake
fell onto the dance floor.
CONCEDE (kun-SEED) verb — admit reluctantly; yield
Sounds like: corn seed
Picture: Two farmers. One, examining something under a magnifying glass,
admits that it is corn seed.
Other form: Concession (noun) (A concession speech is one in which the
loser of an election reluctantly admits that his or her opponent has won.)
Sentence: The boss had to concede that it was his assistant’s idea.
CONCISE (kun-SISE) adj — short and to the point; terse
Sounds like: Kahn’s Ice
Picture: A company, called “Kahn’s Ice,” that sells and delivers blocks of
ice. The slogan on their truck is “Cold.”
Other forms: Conciseness (noun); concisely (adv)
Sentence: Phil read the concise note from his wife: “Leave. Now.”
CONCUR (kun-KERR) verb — agree
Sounds like: can curl
Picture: Two hairstylists discussing a customer’s hair. “I believe it can curl,”
says one. The other concurs, or agrees.
Other form: Concurrence (noun)
Sentence: Scientists do not concur on what caused the dinosaurs to die out.
CONDONE (kun-DONE) verb — to overlook, excuse, or pardon
Looks like: condo one
Picture: The owner of a condominium complex is showing her brother
around. At condo one, he notices that the tenants have covered the outside
of the building with multi-colored aluminum siding, placed a huge neon
sign that flashes “We’re number 1!” in the living room window, and
trimmed the shrubs to look like characters from Gilligan’s Island. When he
asks why she would condone these changes, she replies, “They pay their
rent.”
Note: Don’t confuse with “condemn,” which means “to criticize.”
Sentence: It’s hard to condone such rude behavior.
CONFOUND (kon-FOUND) verb — to mix up (in your own mind); or,
to confuse someone else
Sounds like: gun found
Picture: A detective investigating a murder. The victim was found in a
windowless room, the door locked from the inside. The murder weapon, a
gun, is found inside a locked cabinet, along with the keys to both the door
and the cabinet itself. “I’m confounded,” admits the bewildered detective.
Sentence: Magicians confound their audiences with a lot of distracting
movement.
CONSONANCE (KON-so-nence) noun — a blending of sounds or
opinions; harmony; agreement
Sounds exactly like: consonants
Picture: Three consonants from the alphabet — C, K, and Q — are having
lunch together. “As far as I’m concerned,” says C, “we’re in complete
agreement. We’re all making the same sounds.”
Other form: Consonant (adj)
Sentence: A committee starts out with many differing ideas, but tries to
work toward consonance.
CONSUMMATE (KON-soo-mate) verb — to complete or make whole
Looks like: consume mate
Picture: Black widow spiders have a bizarre end to their mating ritual. After
mating is complete, the female actually consumes (eats) the male. Imagine
that the male and female come to this agreement beforehand. They shake
(consummating the deal), then after consummating the mating ritual, the
female consumes her mate (consummating this really disgusting law of
nature).
Other forms: Consummation (noun); consummate (adj) Note: As an
adjective, “consummate” (KON-soo-met) means “perfect” or “highlyskilled.”
Sentence: They consummated the successful meeting with a lavish banquet.
CONTEND (kun-TEND) verb — to argue a point or position; or, to
struggle for
Sounds like: can’t end
Picture: A football team, losing 118 to 0. In the locker room at halftime, the
captain speaks up: “We’ve fought back all year and it can’t end here. If
we’re to be contenders , we can’t give up!”
Other forms: Contention (noun); contentious (adj)
Sentence: The driver tried to contend that the stop sign was hidden by the
tree.
CONTINGENT (kun-TIN-jent) adj — dependent upon other
circumstances; conditional
Sounds like: can tin gent
Picture: A man made of tin cans. A friend asks if he’s planning to play in the
golf tournament next weekend. “It depends,” says the can tin gent. “If it’s
sunny, I’ll be there. If it rains, I definitely won’t. I haven’t played in ten
years, so I’m rusty enough already.”
Other form: Contingency (noun); contingently (adv)
Sentence: His release from jail was contingent upon his promise to show up
in court.
CONTRACT (kun-TRAKT) verb — squeeze together; shrink
Looks exactly like: contract (KON-trakt) — a legal document
Picture: Two businesspeople are making a deal of some kind. After they
each sign the contract, the document begins to shrink, as if the paper it’s
written on is being compressed. Says one of the signers, “I thought this deal
would allow me to expand, but it appears as though it will be just the
opposite.”
Other forms: Contraction (noun); contractible (adj)
Sentence: Most matter contracts when it freezes; however, water expands.
CONTRITE (kun-TRITE) adj — sorry; penitent
Sounds like: canned trout
Picture: A large, overfed cat has been discovered in the pantry after he’s
opened and devoured twelve cans of trout. As his owner hovers angrily over
him, the cat appears to be sorry; his face and body seem to be saying, “I
promise, I’ll never do this again.” (The dog of the house watches from a
corner of the room and thinks, “I wonder if the cat would teach me how to
use that can opener.”)
Other form: Contrition (noun)
Sentence: Genuinely contrite, Debbie confessed to eating all the doughnuts.
CONUNDRUM (kah-NUN-drum) noun — riddle; mystery
Looks like: cone and drum
Picture: A man playing the drum, but instead of drumsticks, he’s using ice
cream cones. An observer asks: “How does he play music with those
things?” A second observer: “It’s a mystery to me.”
Sentence: The more scientists learn about the universe, the more of a
conundrum it appears to be.
CONVERGE (kun-VERJ) verb — move together to meet at a common
point
Sounds like: can merge
Picture: Two separate highways have been re-routed so that the cars can
merge into one flow of traffic. These roads now converge.
Other forms: Convergence (noun); convergent (adj)
Sentence: Parallel lines never converge.
CONVICTION (kun-VIK-shun) noun — an opinion that is strongly held
Sounds like: convict Shawn
Picture: You’re part of a jury working on the trial of a man named Shawn.
The prosecutor is addressing his opening remarks to the jury: “I believe
with all my heart that Shawn is guilty. I know he committed this terrible
crime. When you see the evidence, you’ll also be sure. And you will convict
Shawn.”
Sentence: Betty held to her convictions, despite the pressure from her
colleagues.
CONVIVIAL (kun-VIV-ee-yul) adj — fond of parties; sociable
Looks like: can Vivian
Sounds (a little) like: carnival
Picture: The director from CANDOR. His sister Vivian (also a can) has just
opened her own carnival. Can Vivian is the perfect host, because she’s so
festive and outgoing. She greets every guest at the front gate and introduces
them to other visitors.
Other forms: Conviviality (noun); convivially (adv)
Sentence: It can be stressful when one member of a couple is convivial and
the other is a loner.
COPIOUS (KO-pee-us) adj — in large quantity; abundant
Sounds like: copy us
Picture: A classroom with three teachers at the blackboard. Each is filling
his or her board with notes. One says to the students, “Copy us. You’ll have
copious notes by the end of this course!”
Other form: Copiousness (noun)
Connect with: Cornucopia
Sentence: It was a lavish party with copious food and drink.
CORDIAL (KOR-jil) adj — friendly; welcoming; gracious
Sounds like: cord Jill
Picture: A girl named Jill who stands at the post office and hands out cord to
customers in case they need to tie up packages. She is known to everyone as
the warmest, friendliest person in town.
Other forms: Cordiality (noun); cordially (adv)
Sentence: We’d heard she was a grouch, so we were surprised by her
cordial welcome.
CORPOREAL (kor-POR-ee-ul) adj — having to do with the body or the
physical world
Looks like: corporal
Picture: An Army corporal has become known on the base for his addiction
to physical fitness. He is constantly doing push-ups and sit-ups, jogging, or
lifting weights. When asked why he spends so much time exercising, the
corporal explains that “the body is the most important part of a person and
it must be kept in perfect condition.” When the corporal is invited by
friends to attend a religious ceremony, he responds, “Sorry, but I have no
interest in the spirit or the soul or any of those religious ideas. Just the body.
I’m going to lift weights all day today.”
Other forms: Corporealness (noun); corporeally (adv)
Connect with: Corporation (a body of people), corpse (a dead body), and
corpulent (having a large, overweight body)
Sentence: If there are ghosts, how do they interact with the corporeal
world?
CORROBORATE (ker-OBB-er-ate) verb — support with evidence; tell
the same story; confirm
Sounds like: co-robber eight
Picture: Eight people have been arrested and brought to trial for the same
robbery. One by one, each of the eight “co-robbers” testifies on the witness
stand, carefully answering the prosecutor’s questions in exactly the same
way the previous person did. So each corroborates the testimony of the
others.
Other forms: Corroboration (noun); corroborative (adj) Note: Usually used
to describe courtroom testimony or evidence. Don’t confuse with
“collaborate.”
Sentence: Scientists continue to find evidence that corroborates Einstein’s
theories.
CRITERIA (cry-TEER-ee-uh) noun — requirements or standards used
to make a decision
Sounds like: cry tearier
Picture: The director is advising an actress who is trying out for a role in the
show: “When you get to the part where you find out your horse has died,
you must cry tearier. We’re using this scene to make our decision about who
gets the part, and the more tears, the better your chances.”
Other form: Criterion (singular)
Sentence: There must be many criteria for selecting astronauts who will
travel to Mars.
CRYPTIC (KRIP-tik) adj — hidden; secret; mysterious
Sounds like: crypt tack
Think of: Crypt means tomb or underground vault. Imagine someone
looking around above ground for a tack, but she can’t find it because it’s
buried in the crypt. She holds a piece of paper that says: “Don’t bother
looking for the tack — it’s below you.” “Hmmm,” she thinks, “that’s a
pretty cryptic message.”
Sentence: The directions on the map are cryptic, which may be why nobody
has found the treasure.
CULPABLE
(CULP-uh-bull) adj — guilty; blameworthy
Sounds like: gulpable
Picture: A boy has done something wrong and is being questioned by his
mother. He swallows hard, making a “gulp” sound.
Other form: Culpability (noun) Connect with: Culprit
Sentence: Found to be culpable, he was fined.
CUPIDITY (cue-PID-ih-tee) noun — greed, especially for money
Looks like: cupid
Picture: Cupid using his bow and arrow to hold up a bank.
Sentence: The burglar returned to the house for more, and his cupidity is
what got him caught.
CURSORY (KERR-sir-ee) adj — quickly and incompletely done;
superficial
Looks like: curse sorry
Picture: A witch who’d changed a woman’s husband into a cocker spaniel.
Touched by the wife’s woeful pleas, the witch admits feeling bad about
inflicting the curse, and agrees to change the husband back into a man. But
in her haste she doesn’t complete the job: he’s still half dog.
Sentence: Pressed for time, the captain conducted a cursory inspection.
DAUNTED (DAWN-ted) adj — dismayed; disheartened; discouraged
(made less courageous)
Sounds like: dawn Ted
Picture: Ted is trying to cross the desert. When he awakens at dawn and
looks around, he realizes he’d been walking in circles all night. Now he’s
about to give up his effort. “I was undaunted,” Ted says to himself, “and
then came the dawn.”
Other forms: Daunt (verb); dauntless, daunting (adj); dauntlessly (adv)
Sentence: Reaching the South Pole was a daunting challenge for many
explorers.
DECADENCE (DEK-uh-dents) noun — moral decay or decline
Sounds like: deck of dance
Picture: Two very conservative ladies aboard a cruise ship. They’re
discussing what goes on down on the dance deck. “It’s disgusting,” says
one. “They get drunk and they dance all night...” “They’re animals,” says
the other. “That’s all I can say. They’re morally-corrupt, filthy, and
decadent.”
Other forms: Decadent (adj); decadently (adv)
NOTE: Don’t be fooled by the fact that many restaurants like to describe
their desserts as “decadent.” This word does NOT mean delicious,
wonderful, or anything positive.
Sentence: Some historians attribute the fall of the Roman Empire to internal
decadence.
DEFAME (de-FAME) verb — to say things harmful to a person’s
reputation; malign; vilify
Sounds like: the frame
Think of: A very valuable picture frame that had been stored at a fine art
museum. When the frame disappears, the guilty museum curator tells
everyone the cleaning lady stole it, and that she’s been stealing from the
museum for years. He is defaming her.
Other forms: Defamation (noun); defamatory (adj)
Sentence: The man was defamed by the accusations of criminal conduct.
DEFERENCE (DEFF-er-ense) noun — the act of yielding to someone
else out of respect
Sounds like: deafer ants
Picture: A family of ants arriving at a music hall. All the ants in this family
have trouble with their hearing, but the grandparents are nearly deaf. The
younger members of the family, acknowledging that the grandparents are
deafer, allow them to sit in the front, closest to the musicians.
Other forms: Defer (verb); deferential (adj)
Sentence: In deference to his boss, Milton refused to take credit for the
discovery.
DENOUNCE (dee-NOWNCE) verb — criticize; condemn
Sounds like: dean ounce
Picture: A short, thin college dean, named Dean Ounce, who criticizes
everything and everyone at his school. He yells at students: “You’re all lazy
and dumb and a disgrace to this institution.” One of the students says to
another, “Pound-for-pound, Dean Ounce is the most critical dean we’ve
ever had.”
Other form: Denunciation (noun)
Sentence: The president denounced the hostile actions of his country’s
closest ally.
DEPLETED (dee-PLEET-id) verb — emptied; drained; used up
Sounds like: the pleated
Picture: Saleswoman to a customer who is looking through a rack of pants.
“I’m sorry,” she says, “the pleated ones are all gone.”
Other form: Depletion (noun); depletable (adj)
Sentence: The epidemic became a medical emergency when supplies of the
antibiotic were depleted.
DEPLORE (dee-PLOR) verb — to express regret or disapproval;
complain; criticize
Sounds like: deep lure
Picture: Two fish in the ocean, discussing a fisherman’s baited hook. First
fish: “Pathetic. We’re five hundred feet down and we have to look at plastic
worms? Why would anyone use such deep lures, anyway?” Second fish: “I
guess they’re just not interested in those shallow fish that live upstairs.”
Other form: Deplorable (adj)
Sentence: Visitors deplored the terrible conditions in which local residents
were living.
DEPRECATE (DEPP-rah-kate) verb — disapprove; belittle
Sounds like: Debra Kate
Picture: Debra Kate, Dean Ounce’s sister (see DENOUNCE ). Debra Kate
is the headmistress at a girls’ boarding school. She is very strict and oldfashioned. Like her brother, she believes her role is to express disapproval,
and she always lets her students know how unhappy she is with them.
Other form: Deprecatory (adj)
Note: Don’t confuse with “depreciate,” which has to do with lowering the
value of something.
Sentence: People liked his self-deprecating sense of humor
t
Picture: A man with a very large collection of antique spoons. He sits
holding a dented spoon in one hand, his face buried in the other as he cries
to his wife.
Other form: Despondency (noun)
Sentence: After the fire, Sam was despondent for days.
DESPOT (DESS-pot) noun — tyrant
Looks like: desk pot
Picture: A pot standing on a desk, proclaiming to be in complete power.
Other forms: Despotism (noun); despotic (adj)
Sentence: After assuming control, he turned into a despot.
DESTITUTE (DESS-tih-toot) adj — poor; lacking possessions
Sounds like: dusty tooth
Picture: A man so poor that he has only one tooth left (he can’t afford dental
care). And even that one tooth is dusty, because he doesn’t own a
toothbrush.
Other form: Destitution (noun)
Sentence: In order to qualify for the scholarship, you had to be almost
destitute.
DESULTORY (DESS-ul-tor-ee) adj — lacking a plan; aimless
Sounds like: this dull story
Picture: The father of the groom has gone up to the microphone to toast the
newlyweds. As he begins to speak, the groom says, “Oh no, not this dull
story! He just rambles on and on. He doesn’t even think about what he
wants to say until he gets up there!” (The father begins: “Ladies and
gentlemen. Friends and family. Guests. Waiters and waitresses. Thank you
for sharing this special day with us. You know, when my son was eleven,
some things happened. I don’t necessarily know what they are, or even
think they have much to do with this very special day. And now that he has
taken a bride, I often wonder...”
Other form: Desultoriness (noun)
Sentence: The team leader’s desultory approach to the project frustrated
everyone.
DEXTERITY (dex-TERR-ih-tee) noun — high level of skill, especially
with the hands; adroitness
Sounds like: Decks Terry
Picture: A magician named Terry who is so skillful with cards that he’s
known as “Decks Terry.” (Some say he can shuffle a deck of cards while
they’re still in the box.)
Other form: Dexterous (adj) Connect with: Ambidextrous
Sentence: My grandmother’s dexterity helped her produce beautiful quilts.
DIATRIBE (DIE-a-tribe) noun — a bitterly critical speech
Sounds like: dye a tribe
Picture: The chief is enraged, screaming at a man who has dyed the entire
tribe green.
Sentence: When something went wrong, he went into a diatribe.
DIGRESS (dye-GRESS) verb — to move away from the main topic
when writing or speaking; to go off on a tangent
Sounds like: die grass
Picture: The guest speaker at the American Lawn Club’s annual convention.
The speaker’s topic is “How to Bring Dead Grass Back to Life.” Just a few
minutes into his talk, while discussing the problem of dead grass under the
barbecue grill, the lecturer begins to tell his audience about a really fun
cookout he went to when he was visiting his sister in Arkansas, and the
great recipe she gave him for shish kebab, and how his brother-in-law,
Mark, cheated at Monopoly, and...
Other form: Digression (noun)
Sentence: In writing, if you digress from the main point for too long, you
may lose your reader.
DILATORY (DILL-uh-torr-ee) adj — causing lateness; stalling
Looks like: delay story
Picture: A little girl who doesn’t want to go to the dentist. She starts to tell
her mother a long story about her day at school. Her mother says, “This is
just a ‘delay story’ because you want us to be late.”
Sentence: His dilatory actions caused them to miss their plane.
DISCERNING (dih-SURR-ning) adj — insightful; perceptive
Sounds like: this urn Ning
Picture: Two archeologists digging at a site in China. They uncover a vase,
or urn, and one of the archeologists begins to describe it after a very brief
examination: “This urn? Ning. That is, it’s from the Ning Dynasty. It’s easy
to tell. See this pattern of dragon’s teeth along the bottom? That’s
distinctive of Ning. Also, the color and shape of the handles are clues that
this urn is from the Ning Dynasty.” The second archeologist adds, “Also, it
says right here on the bottom, ‘Made during the Ning Dynasty.’”
Other forms: Discern (verb); discernible (adj)
Sentence: She has a discerning nature, which allows her to understand her
clients on a deep level.
DISCLOSE (diss-KLOZE) verb — provide information; reveal
Sounds like: this close
Picture: Two corporate chairmen are in a meeting. A vice president of one
of the companies comes out of the meeting to talk secretly with waiting
reporters. Holding two fingers a quarter-inch apart, he whispers, “They’re
this close to making the deal.” Then he says, “But you didn’t hear that from
me .”
Other form: Disclosure (noun) Sentence: Sue disclosed more to the stranger
than she’d intended.
DISCORD (DISS-kord) noun — disagreement; dissonance
Sounds like: this chord
Picture: Four people listening to music and trying to decide what a certain
chord is. They all have different opinions. “This chord is C,” says one. “No,
it isn’t,” says another, “this chord is F...”
Other forms: Discordant (adj); discordantly (adv)
Sentence: A certain amount of discord is expected within every family.
DISCOURSE (DISS-korse) noun — exchange of ideas; conversation
Sounds like: this course
Picture: A college professor, on the first day of class, explaining what the
course will be about. “This course is called, ‘On the Nature of Talk.’ We
will explore the history of conversation. We will study videotapes of people
talking. We will discuss the art of discussion. All tests will be oral. And I
will insist on plenty of talking in class, because this course is about
discourse.”
Sentence: We anticipated a heated debate, but the discourse remained civil.
DISDAIN (diss-DANE) noun — a feeling of scorn or contempt
Sounds like: this stain
Picture: Person who refuses to help others remove a stain (he’s above that
sort of work).
Other forms: Disdain (verb); disdainful (adj)
Sentence: Ethel loved her son, but treated his wife with disdain.
DISPARAGE (dis-PAHR-ij) verb — say negative things; belittle
Sounds like: this asparagus
Picture: Two vegetable farmers stand along a fence looking over to the
other side, where a third farmer is loading his asparagus crop onto a truck.
They are ridiculing him for the small asparagus he’s grown. “Asparagus?”
asks one. “I thought it was string beans!”
Other forms: Disparaging (adj); disparagingly (adv)
Note: Don’t confuse with “disparate.”
Sentence: No one likes to hear disparaging remarks (at least about
themselves).
DISPARATE (dis-PAHR-et) adj — different
Sounds like: this parrot
Picture: A pet shop owner explaining to a customer, “This parrot is different
from this parrot.”
Other forms: Disparity (noun); disparately (adv)
Sentence: Most cities contain disparate ethnic groups.
DISPERSE (dis-PERSE) verb — spread around; scatter
Sounds like: this purse
Picture: A woman taking candy from her purse and throwing it to eagerly
awaiting children.
Other form: Dispersion (noun)
Note: Don’t confuse with “disburse,” which means “to pay out.”
Sentence: The police used tear gas to disperse the crowd.
DISSENT (dis-SENT) verb — to disagree, especially with the majority,
or with an authority
Sounds like: this scent
Picture: A crowd gathered in the capital of an unknown country. The king
has just announced a “national scent” to go along with the national flag and
national flower. The scent is lemon, and government workers have begun
spraying the entire country with furniture polish. Many in the crowd
disagree with the decision, holding up signs that say, “This scent is a
lemon.”
Other forms: Dissent, dissension (nouns)
Sentence: Totalitarian forms of government do not tolerate much dissent
among their citizens.
DISSOLUTION (dis-so-LOOSH-un) noun — separation into parts; the
process of dissolving
Sounds like: this solution
Picture: A chemist comes into the lab with a beaker of liquid. “This
solution,” she says, “must be separated into two parts.” Then she pours half
into one flask and half into another.
Other form: Dissolve (verb)
Sentence: Another way of saying divorce is “dissolution of marriage.”
DISTENDED (dis-TEND-ed) adj — swollen; extended
Sounds like: this tendon (a tendon connects muscle to bone)
Picture: A man and woman are playing tennis. The match is several hours
old when the man approaches the net with a sad face and an elbow swollen
to seven times its normal size. “Sorry, but I have to stop. It’s this tendon. It
swells up every time I play.”
Other forms: Distend (verb); distension (noun)
Sentence: The toxins had greatly distended the man’s body.
DIVERGENCE (dye-VERR-jence) noun — the act of splitting off into
different directions
Sounds like: diver gents
Picture: Two gentlemen diving from the same diving board, but in different
directions. (Onlooker: “We’re likely to get diverging accounts of this dive
from the judges.”)
Other forms: Diverge (verb); divergent (adj)
Sentence: A divergence of opinion ended their friendship.
DOGMATIC (dawg-MAT-ik) adj — sticking to long-held beliefs, even
when faced with contrary evidence; closed-minded
Sounds like: dog medic
Picture: A medic (military doctor) arguing with a dog. The medic is
insisting that there is no scientific proof that dogs can talk. The dog replies,
“I think you’re ignoring some important evidence.”
Other forms: Dogma, dogmatism (nouns)
Sentence: Religious dogma must somehow allow for social change.
DIVERSE (dye-VERSE) adj — different; various
Sounds like: dye furs
Picture: The father rabbit has dyed his seven children different colors. He
explains to his wife: “I dyed their fur so they all look different. Now we can
tell them apart.”
Other form: Diversity (noun)
Sentence: Many colleges are looking for well-rounded applicants with
diverse experiences.
DOLEFUL (DOLE-full) adj — extremely sad
Sounds like: doll full
Think of: Doll full of tears. Picture a doll that cries and has a very sad
expression.
Connect with: Dolorous, doldrums, and condolences
Sentence: Her doleful eyes told the story of a difficult life.
ECLECTIC (ee-KLEK-tik) adj — choosing from many different
sources; carefully selective
Looks like: electric
Picture: Two women talking in the kitchen. The visitor notices bills from six
different electric companies for the same month. She asks about it. Her
friend explains: “I like the electric heat I get from Eastwest Utilities, but I
think the electricity from Superior Power is better for cooking. The lights
are a little brighter since I started using Con Everyone Electric & Gas. And
it just seems that the refrigerator keeps things colder with Central
Illuminating. And then there’s the hair dryer, and the VCR...”
Other form: Eclecticism (noun)
Sentence: An eclectic reader enjoys many different writing styles and
subjects.
ECCENTRIC (ek-SEN-trik) adj — different from most, especially in
personality or behavior
Sounds like: accent Rick
Picture: An old man named Rick who sits in a rocking chair on the sidewalk
in front of his house and speaks in a different accent every five minutes.
(The neighbors think he’s a little weird.)
Other form: Eccentricity (noun) Sentence: Alice was eccentric, but
everyone loved her odd ways.
EFFACE (ee-FACE) verb — erase
Sounds like: the face, and rhymes with erase
Picture: A penny that has been worn from use, so that Lincoln’s face has
been erased.
Note: Don’t confuse with deface, which means to mar or disfigure.
Sentence: All signs of poverty and suffering were effaced before the queen’s
visit.
EFFERVESCENCE (eff-er-VEH-sense) noun — the quality of being
bubbly or full of life
Sounds like: ever pheasants
Picture: A large field surrounded by trees. The field is crowded with
pheasants who are running around singing, dancing, and blowing enormous
bubbles with those gigantic plastic rings and pans of soap suds. Two
beavers look on, one saying to the other, “Ah, pheasants, ever pheasants. So
bubbly. So full of life... Well, let’s get back to work.”
Other form: Effervescent (adj)
Sentence: She’d had little acting experience, but her effervescence got her
the part.
EFFICACY (EF-ih-kuh-see) noun — the ability to produce desired
results
Sounds like: Effie can see
Picture: A little girl named Effie has been legally blind since birth. But
today her eye doctor has presented her with a special pair of glasses, and
when she puts them on she can see quite well. “I believe you’ll be happy,”
says the doctor, “with the efficacy of these eyeglasses.”
Other forms: Efficacious (adj); efficaciously (adv)
Sentence: The new medication had a higher degree of efficacy.
ELATED (ee-LAY-ted) adj — extremely happy; overjoyed
Sounds like: eel ate Ted
Picture: Mother eel to father eel: “Dear, I’m so happy! Baby eel ate Ted this
morning! It’s the first time he’s eaten in weeks!” Father eel: “That’s great,
honey, but Ted was my brother. So now you’re elated and I’m lugubrious.”
(Eels talk like that.)
Other form: Elation (noun)
Sentence: Uncle Frank was elated about winning the lottery.
ELOQUENCE (ELL-oh-kwence) noun — powerfully effective speech
Sounds like: elephants
Picture: The Republican National Convention. Thousands have gathered in
the convention hall to hear the guest speaker, an elephant (the party’s
mascot). Everyone is dressed in elephant costumes. Elephant signs and
posters are everywhere. “I’m all ears,” says one audience member. “Many
believe he’s the best speaker in the country. And I’m told that once you hear
him talk, you never forget it.”
Other forms: Eloquent (adj); eloquently (adv)
Sentence: Not usually known for eloquence, Ralph surprised everyone with
a wonderful speech.
EMBELLISH (em-BEL-lish) verb — to make more beautiful; decorate;
adorn
Sounds like: M bell fish
Picture: A young girl showing her mother how she’s decorated the fish in
their goldfish bowl. The fish have bells hanging from their bodies, and each
of the bells has the letter ‘M’ on it. “Look, Mommy,” says the girl, “M Bell
Fish!” “Oh, they’re beautiful,” says the mother, “and if they ever jump out
of the bowl, we’ll be able to hear them flopping around on the floor! Let’s
go decorate the hamsters!”
Other form: Embellishment (noun)
Sentence: Their home was plain and simple, but they embellished it with
handmade crafts.
EMULATE (EM-yoo-late) verb — imitate
Sounds like: Em, you’re late
Picture: Emily is being scolded by her mother for getting home late: “Em,
you’re late.” Standing right behind Emily is her younger brother, who says,
“I’m late too, Mom, because I want to be just like Em.”
Other form: Emulation (noun) Sentence: As young boys, we tried to
emulate our favorite ballplayers.
ENDEMIC (en-DEMM-ik) adj — native to a particular country or
among a particular group
Sounds like: end emic
Think of: A country where everyone gets a strange illness called Emic
Disease. Symptoms include swollen eyebrows, wrinkled kneecaps, and a
kind of a sneeze-cough-hiccup that keeps sufferers (and their families)
awake for weeks at a time. One day, the entire population gathers to protest
the government’s apathy about the disease. Ten thousand people with
swollen eyebrows and wrinkled kneecaps fill the capital city and, between
sneeze-cough-hiccups, they chant, “End Emic.”
Sentence: That particular plant is endemic to the northern tip of the island.
ENDORSE (enn-DORSE) verb — promote; recommend
Sounds like: end horse
Picture: A horse salesman saying to a customer, “I recommend the end
horse.”
Other form: Endorsement (noun)
Sentence: Celebrity endorsements can be effective.
ENERVATE (ENN-er-vate) verb — sap the strength; weaken
Sounds like: enter wait
Picture: A man attempting to get onto an elevator. The elevator operator
tells the man to enter, but every time he tries, the operator tells him to wait.
After ten tries, the man is exhausted. “Enter, wait. Enter, wait.” he says.
“I’m drained. I think I’ll take the stairs.”
Other forms: Enervation (noun); enervative (adj)
Sentence: The hot sun enervated the runners, slowing their pace.
ENHANCE (enn-HANTS) verb — intensify; improve
Sounds like: in hands
Picture: A man and woman have locked themselves out of their car. As the
man encourages her, the woman manages to insert a wire hanger through
the key chain inside the car and pull the keys out through the slightly open
window. With the keys in her hands she says, “Well, this should enhance
our chances of getting home.”
Other form: Enhancement (noun)
Sentence: A coat of paint can greatly enhance the appearance of a room.
ENIGMA (en-IGG-muh) noun — mystery; puzzle
Sounds like: an egg, Ma
Picture: A woman calling her mother from the maternity ward of a hospital,
where she’s just given birth to something unexpected: “This is hard to
explain, but it’s an egg, Ma.” As she speaks, she glances over to the large
egg in the crib next to her bed.
Other form: Enigmatic (adj) Sentence: The origin of Saturn’s rings remains
a puzzling enigma.
ENMITY (ENN-mit-tee) noun — mutual hatred
Sounds like: enemy tee
Picture: Two people who completely hate each other are on the golf course
together. They are about to tee off at the ‘Enemy Tee,’ where hostile players
face each other with golf clubs and keep swinging until one of them has to
be carried away. (Says one observer to another at the Enemy Tee, “This
gives a whole new meaning to the term ‘Grand Slam’ event.”)
Connect with: Amity (noun) — friendship. It’s easy to tell these two words
apart, because ‘enmity’ looks like ‘enemy.’
Sentence: The enmity between the two warring nations is centuries old.
EPHEMERAL (ee-FEM-er-al) adj — temporary; short-lived
Sounds like: F. M. mural
Picture: An artist, known by just his initials (“F.M.”), who paints murals
that fade away very soon after he completes them.
Other form: Ephemerally (adv)
Sentence: My memory of dreams is ephemeral: by lunchtime, I can’t
remember a thing.
ERADICATE (er-AD-ih-kate) verb — remove completely and
permanently; exterminate
Sounds like: a rat, a crate
Picture: Your house is infested with rats and you would prefer that it
weren’t , so you call an exterminator. He comes over the next day with a
bunch of crates. You watch with some curiosity as he spreads the crates all
over the house. You look for traps, poison, spray guns, but you see none of
that stuff. Just crates. So you ask him what’s up. “The rats love these
crates,” he explains. “You put a crate out, a rat will go inside and close the
lid. Nobody knows this, actually, I discovered it. But it’s true. The thing is,
each rat wants its own crate. If you have a rat, I bring in a crate. A rat, a
crate. Fifty rats, fifty crates. I come back tomorrow and take them all away
forever and you’ll never even know they were here.”
Other forms: Eradication (noun); eradicable (adj)
Sentence: Lisa worked hard to eradicate all evidence that her ex-husband
had ever lived with her.
ERRATIC (er-RAT-ik) adj — unpredictable; differing from what is
normal or expected
Sounds like: ear attic
Picture: A house. The owner has installed giant ears on either side of the
house, up near the attic. The neighbors across the street are looking at the
ears and discussing the owner of the house. One neighbor: “He’s always
been kind of unpredictable, but this is strange, even for him.”
Other form: Erratically (adv) Note: Don’t confuse with erotic.
Sentence: The sleepy man was driving erratically.
ERUDITION (err-yoo-DISH-un) noun — the knowledge acquired
through many years of study
Sounds like: every edition
Picture: A student visiting his professor’s office, where the walls are lined
with many books. “Professor,” asks the student, “have you read all these
books?” The teacher responds: “Every edition.”
Other forms: Erudite (adj); eruditely (adv)
Sentence: The professor’s erudite manner impressed many students, and
intimidated others.
ESOTERIC (ess-oh-TERR-ik) adj — known to, or understood by, a
limited group of people
Sounds like: it’s so Derek
Picture: A group of men and boys attending a convention for people named
Derek. Everyone at the Derek Convention is wearing a name tag that says,
“Hello, My Name Is Derek,” and they’re all standing around talking about
famous Dereks in history, telling Derek jokes, and thinking about the things
that Dereks think about. An onlooker (named Jeffrey) says to a friend,
“Don’t ask me what they’re talking about. I haven’t understood one word
they’ve said since I got here. It’s all so, I don’t know... it’s so Derek.”
Other form: Esoterica (noun)
Sentence: The book was filled with esoteric information about a long-lost
tribe.
ETHEREAL (ee-THEER-ee-ul) adj — heavenly; fine; delicately
beautiful
Sounds like: eat cereal
Picture: A beautiful angel with platinum hair, delicately smooth skin, and a
glowing face comes down from the sky to tell everyone how to achieve
such a heavenly state: “Eat cereal.”
Other forms: Etherealness (noun); ethereally (adv)
Sentence: The frozen mist on the trees provided an ethereal backdrop for
the photograph.
EULOGIZE (YOO-luh-jize) verb — to praise highly; to extol
Sounds like: your large eyes
Remember: In our culture, a eulogy is most often a speech given at a
person’s funeral. So picture the brother of the person who has died,
speaking to his sister at her funeral (he’s really speaking to the
congregation, telling them about her). “You were the best sister anyone
could hope for. You were sensitive, and understanding, and always willing
to go out of your way to help someone in need. But what I’ll always
remember about you is your large eyes, filled with love and laughter.”
Note: The prefix “eu-” almost always means “good.” Look up eugenics,
euphony, and euphoria in the dictionary, and see EUPHEMISM below.
Sentence: Listening to a eulogy helps us remember specific traits about the
person who has died.
EUPHEMISM (YOO-fuh-miz-um) noun — a word or phrase that’s used
to make an unpleasant idea sound better
Sounds like: you from prison
Picture: A woman asking a man, “You from prison?” The man, in a prison
uniform, says he prefers “the big house.”
Other forms: Euphemistic (adj), euphemistically (adv)
Sentences: “Passed away” is a euphemism for “died.” “Continental
breakfast” is a euphemism for “muffins and coffee.”
EVASIVE (ee-VAY-siv) adj — tending to avoid giving direct answers
Looks like: Eva’s hive
Picture: A bumble bee has flown his date, Eva, home. She lives in a
condominium of hives, but doesn’t want him to know which one. “So,” he
says, “which hive do you live in, Eva?” “Oh, one of those over there,” she
answers evasively. “Well, I better get some rest. Give me a buzz some
time.”
Other forms: Evade (verb); evasiveness (noun)
Sentence: The nervous witness avoided eye contact and his answers were
evasive.
The following words begin with “ex”. “Ex” sounds like “eggs,” so in
order to remember many of these words, we will create characters,
situations, and stories involving eggs.
EXACERBATE (ex-ASS-er-bate) verb — to make a bad situation worse
Sounds like: eggs as her bait
Picture: A woman is fishing from a rowboat, using hard-boiled eggs as bait.
Nearby, in another boat, is her doctor. He’s worried about her cholesterol
level, which is already too high. “She’s eating fish. And to make matters
worse, she’s using eggs as her bait. She’s going to exacerbate her
condition.”
Other form: Exacerbation (noun)
Sentence: Trying to put out a fire with gasoline will only exacerbate the
problem.
EXALT (egg-ZAWLT) verb — raise in rank; elevate; praise
Sounds like: eggs salt
Picture: Hard-boiled eggs worshipping a salt shaker. As they glorify the salt,
it is raised into the air, elevated by their praise.
Other forms: Exalted (adj); exaltation (noun)
Sentence: The popular queen was exalted by all.
EXPUNGE (ex-PUNJ) verb — erase
Sounds like: x sponge
Picture: A sponge that erases everything it touches.
Sentence: An asteroid could expunge an entire city.
EXPURGATE (EX-per-gate) verb — to remove offensive words, ideas,
or symbols; censor
Sounds like: eggs pure gate
Picture: Someone has painted obscene graffiti on a gate. The eggs who live
next-door are horrified, and immediately repaint the gate to return it to its
pure condition.
Other form: Expurgatory (adj)
Sentence: Some people want to expurgate racist and sexist language from
literature.
EXTEMPORANEOUS (ex-tem-por-AY-nee-us) adj — done without
planning; improvised
Sounds like: eggs temp or rains
Picture: You’re watching the six o’clock news, waiting for the weather
report (you’re planning a family back-to-nature camping trip tomorrow and
you want to know if you’ll need to bring an umbrella for the VCR). But the
regular weatherperson is sick and her substitute is this egg who doesn’t
have a script or any idea what he wants to say. It sounds like this: “If we
look at the map, we see a lot of big letters and numbers. Let’s see, what do
you suppose this “82” means? It could be the temp. Or, the chance of rain,
or the amount of rain we might get tonight. Hey, let’s all just wait and see
what happens. No point in standing here trying to guess what the weather
will do, right? Now back to you, Katie and Bob...”
Other form: Extemporaneously (adv)
Sentence: He spoke extemporaneously, without notes, for an hour.
EXTOL (ex-TOLE) verb — praise
Sounds like: eggs toll
Picture: A giant egg working as a toll collector. The driver must praise the
egg before he’s permitted to pass through the gate.
Other form: Extolment (noun)
Sentence: The writer was extolled for her creativity.
EXTRANEOUS (ex-TRAY-nee-us) adj — unnecessary; irrelevant
Sounds like: extra trains
Picture: A small town with a small population and a small train station.
Each morning exactly two people wait on the platform. At 8:05, the train
pulls into the station, the two passengers board, and the train leaves the
empty platform behind. At 8:09 another train arrives, but there’s nobody
there. At 8:14 another train arrives. At 8:20, still another train pulls into the
empty station. This continues all day long, eight trains every hour for the
only two people in the whole town who commute to work.
Other forms: Extraneously (adv); extraneousness (noun)
Sentence: A good editor will eliminate extraneous words and phrases.
EXTRICATE (EX-trik-ate) verb — to free from a trap or difficult
situation; to disentangle
Sounds like: eggs truck Kate
Picture: Kate works on a chicken farm. One day, Kate is loading eggs onto
the back of a truck when the driver is attacked by a crazed chicken. Startled,
the driver puts the truck into gear and takes off, bouncing at high speed
down the dirt road into town. Meanwhile, Kate has fallen headfirst into the
back of the truck and has been knocked unconscious, buried beneath boxes
of eggs, which have toppled onto her. Arriving at his destination, the driver
runs to the back of the eggs truck, discovers Kate, and frees her from her
trap. (Kate is angry. To find out what she and the driver say to each other,
see PALTRY .)
Sentence: The fox worked for hours to extricate itself from the trap.
EXUBERANT (ex-ZOO-burr-ent) adj — uncontrollably joyous
Sounds like: ex-zoo bear aunt
Picture: A grizzly bear who had left the zoo returns to visit his aunt. When
they see each other, they are both very happy, hugging and dancing and
singing for many hours.
Other forms: Exuberance (noun); exuberantly (adv)
Sentence: The city was exuberant after its team won the championship.
FALLACIOUS (fuh-LAY-shuss) adj — false; misleading
Sounds like: full ashes
Picture: Father and son on the lawn in front of the son’s house. Dad says,
“Be sure to always clean the ashes out of the fireplace.” He is unaware that
the ashes have filled the fireplace and the entire chimney and are spilling
out onto the roof. “Don’t worry, Dad,” says the young man. “I clean it out
every day.”
Other forms: Fallacy (noun); fallaciously (adv)
Sentence: Many claims we believe to be true may, years later, turn out to be
fallacious.
FASTIDIOUS (fass-TID-ee-uss) adj — difficult to please
Sounds like: fast hideous
Picture: A decorator showing her client many kinds of wallpaper. Every
time she holds up a sample, the client says, “Hideous!” The faster she
shows the samples, the faster the client says, “Hideous!”
Other forms: Fastidiousness (noun); fastidiously (adv)
Sentence: The chef was so fastidious, no one could stand to work with him.
FERVOR (FER-ver) noun — strong passion
Sounds like: fever, or forever
Picture: A young man telling his girlfriend how much he loves her. He
speaks with an intensity of passion that seems to have no limits. “Ophelia,
my love for you is like a hurricane at sea, wild, uncontrollable! I’m
drowning in it! It’s swallowing me up, tearing me to pieces, dashing me
against the rocks. I am shredded by passion! I am consumed by fever! A
fever that will last forever!” (The young woman is shocked: “My goodness,
Rudy, it sounds like you should be going out with a nurse.”)
Other forms: Fervidness (noun); fervidly (adv)
Sentence: After the woman’s claim of a miraculous cure, the town was
swept up by religious fervor.
FICKLE (FIK-uhl) adj — lacking loyalty; unpredictably changeable;
erratic
Rhymes with: pickle and nickel
Picture: A little girl and her teacher. The teacher is holding up a picture of a
pickle and a picture of a nickel and has asked the girl which she likes better.
The girl says she likes pickles better. Then she says she likes nickels better.
She continues to alternate, changing her mind every few seconds.
Other form: Fickleness (noun)
Sentence: Audiences are fickle, which is why many celebrities fade from
view.
FLACCID (FLASS-id) adj — lacking firmness; soft; limp
Sounds like: flat Sid
Picture: A jellyfish named Sid. Like all jellyfish, Sid has no bones in his
body, so he is unable to maintain any shape. When he’s dropped onto a
table, he becomes completely flat.
Other forms: Flaccidly (adv); flaccidity (noun)
Sentence: After months away from the gym, the weightlifter’s arms had
become flaccid.
FLAGRANT (FLAY-grent) adj — openly and obviously evil; glaring;
conspicuous
Looks like: flag rent
Picture: A man and woman parading on the sidewalk in front of their
apartment building. Each carries a flag that says, “We have no complaints
about this building or our apartment, but we aren’t going to pay our rent and
we don’t care who knows it.”
Other forms: Flagrantly (adv); flagrancy (noun)
Sentence: The attack was a flagrant violation of the treaty.
FLEDGLING (FLEJ-ling) noun — beginner
Sounds like: fresh wings
Picture: A newly-hatched bird trying to fly with fresh wings. He’s a
beginner.
Sentence: The fledgling pilot flew solo for the first time.
FLIPPANCY (FLIP-an-see) noun — treating a serious situation with
arrogant humor or disrespect
Sounds like: flip and see
Picture: A man sits in the electric chair. Just minutes earlier, a storm
knocked out power and now one of the guards asks if the electricity is back
on. The prisoner smiles casually and gestures to the large switch on the wall
next to the chair: “Just flip and see.”
Other forms: Flippant (adj); flippantly (adv)
Sentence: Hal’s flippant attitude after his arrest only angered the police
more.
FOMENT (foe-MENT) verb — to stir into action; rouse; incite
Sounds like: foam mint
Picture: A man who has covered his face with foam mint (a mint-scented
shave cream). He runs through the streets, trying to stir the other men to
follow his lead and finally shave off their beards. “It’s time to unite,” he
yells, “and remove the whiskers that keep us from seeing who we really
are!”
Other form: Fomentation (noun) Note: Don’t confuse with: “ferment,”
which is a chemical process.
Sentence: The college student was arrested and accused of trying to foment
a riot.
FORESIGHT (FOR-site) noun — the ability to see ahead, anticipate, or
predict
Sounds like: four sight
Picture: A woman who wakes up each morning at four o’clock with a vision
in which she can see the events of the coming day. “I can yell at my kids for
things they haven’t even thought about doing yet!”
Other forms: Foresighted (adj); foresee (verb)
Sentence: Even though it was a sunny morning, she had the foresight to take
an umbrella to work.
FRUGAL (FROO-gull) adj — careful with money; thrifty
Sounds like: few gulls
Picture: The man who wasted his inheritance on gulls (see PRODIGAL )
has a brother. This brother received the same inheritance, but when he met
the seagull salesman, he bought only a few gulls.
Other forms: Frugality (noun); frugally (adv)
Sentence: A frugal shopper will wait for sales before buying.
FULMINATE (FULL-min-ate) verb — to explode, either with sound or
anger
Sounds like: full men ate
Picture: Three large men at a picnic. They ate and ate until they were full,
then the full men ate some more, until they literally exploded. After
witnessing this, the men’s wives blew up in anger.
Other form: Fulmination (noun)
Sentence: He fulminated against his error-prone employee.
FURTIVE (FER-tiv) adj — sneaky; secretive
Sounds like: fur tip
Picture: Husband and wife are about to leave a fancy restaurant. They have
just picked up her fur from the coat check room and he’s complaining about
the prices of the meals, the fact that they have to pay for parking, the cost of
the babysitter, etc. Meanwhile, his wife is sneaking back to the coat check
girl to slip her a dollar.
Other forms: Furtiveness (noun); furtively (adv)
Sentence: Three hours late, he tiptoed furtively into the house.
FUTILE (FYOO-til) adj — hopelessly ineffective; useless; in vain
Sounds like: few tile
Picture: Two men on a roof. They’re professional roofers, which is why
they’re up there and which means they’re supposed to know how to
estimate how many tiles they’ll need to do a certain roof. But they
underestimated and now they’re trying to figure out how to stretch the few
tiles they have left to cover about forty square feet of roof area. “It’s
hopeless,” says one. “Too few tiles.”
Other forms: Futility (noun); futilely (adv)
Sentence: The cow tried to fly, but it was a futile effort.
GARBLED (GAR-bulled) adj — changed so much that the original
meaning has been distorted; scrambled
Sounds like: gargled
Picture: A man talking and gargling at the same time. His friend is trying
hard to understand the message, but it’s too distorted to comprehend.
Other form: Garble (verb)
Sentence: The email came through, but it was garbled.
GARISH (GAIR-ish) adj — flashy; gaudy
Looks like: car fish
Picture: A fish swimming in the ocean. This fish has fins like a ’58 Chevy,
with flashy chrome trim and pinstriping; its scales are two-tone metallic.
When it moves past other fish, it turns on a set of blinking lights that act as
turn signals, and sounds a horn that plays the theme from “Flipper.”
Other forms: Garishly (adv); garishness (noun)
Sentence: In an effort to look exotic, the fortune teller wore a lot of garish
jewelry.
GARNER (GARR-ner) verb — collect; gather; accumulate; earn
Sounds like: gardener
Picture: A gardener showing the many ribbons she has collected for her
prize-winning flowers.
Sentence: His songs have garnered many awards.
GARRULOUS (GAIR-uh-luss) adj — very talkative; loquacious
Sounds like: Gary Loose
Think of: A talkative man named Gary Loose Lips. Gary can’t stop talking
for a second. He wears a pair of low gray shoes, which are also talking (see
LOQUACIOUS ).
Other form: Garrulity (noun)
Sentence: Paul was garrulous, so he was a natural choice to be the
spokesperson.
GENIAL (JEE-nee-ul) adj — friendly; gracious; kind
Sounds like: Genie Al
Picture: A Genie named Al has just come out of his bottle. He is extremely
friendly and accommodating, wanting very much to please everyone around
him.
Other form: Geniality (noun)
Sentence: I try to be genial, but my natural grouchiness inevitably comes
through.
GERMANE (jer-MAYNE) adj — relevant; fitting
Looks like: Germany
Picture: A courtroom. The lawyer asks the witness on the stand, “What’s the
capital of Germany?” The judge interrupts: “I don’t see how that question is
relevant to this case. It’s not germane.”
Sentence: When writing an essay, focus on the germane points.
GIRTH (GERTH) noun — distance around an object; circumference
Rhymes with: birth
Picture: A pregnant woman, very wide around the middle.
Sentence: The old oak tree had a girth of twelve feet.
GLUTTON (GLUT-tin) noun — a person who consumes huge quantities
of food or drink; someone with great endurance
Looks like: a combination of “glue” and “button”
Picture: A big casserole of glue and buttons. Someone at the dinner table is
devouring an enormous amount of this stuff, for some reason.
Other forms: Gluttony (noun); gluttonous (adj)
Sentence: His gluttony, especially for sweets, got him into a serious medical
condition.
GRAVITY (GRAH-vih-tee) noun — seriousness
Sounds exactly like: gravity, the force that holds us to the Earth.
Picture: An astronaut has landed on some distant planet with very powerful
gravity. The force is so strong that the astronaut has been flattened by it (a
serious situation).
Other forms: Grave (adj); gravely (adv)
Sentence: A situation’s gravity can sometimes cause nervous laughter.
GREGARIOUS (greh-GAIR-ee-uss) adj — sociable; extroverted;
enjoying companionship
Sounds like: Greg, Gary, and us
Picture: A man and woman are getting ready to leave for vacation. As the
husband carries his suitcase down the stairs, he sees that two friends are
seated in his living room. His wife explains that she’s invited everyone they
know to go on vacation with them. “Well, so far it’s Greg, Gary, and us,”
she says. “But I’m still waiting to hear from Audrey, Fred, and Nora Jean.
And Fred’s going to call his brother, and Audrey’s asking everyone in her
building...”
Other form: Gregariousness (noun)
Sentence: Gregarious people probably make better salesmen.
GULLIBLE (GULL-ih-bull) adj — easily deceived
Sounds like: gully bull
Picture: A bull has fallen into a gully, tricked by the other bulls.
Other form: Gullibility (noun)
Sentence: Don’t be so gullible that you believe everything.
HACKNEYED (HAK-need) adj — unoriginal; trite
Sounds like: hat kneed
Picture: Two women with fancy hats on their knees commenting on a third
woman with baseball caps on her knees.
Sentence: Avoid hackneyed phrases in your writing.
HAMPER (HAM-purr) verb — interfere with movement or progress
Sounds like: hamper (as in clothes hamper)
Picture: A gigantic clothes hamper parked in the middle of a highway,
causing traffic to back up for miles.
Sentence: The blizzard hampered the search for survivors.
HAPHAZARD (hap-HAZ-erd) adj — without plan or direction
Sounds like: hop Hazel (also notice the word “hazard“)
Picture: Hazel plans to hop across the state of North Dakota. As she gets
ready to go, a reporter asks what her plan is, how many maps she has, and
how she intends to deal with the hazards out there. Hazel: “Plans? Maps?
Who needs them? I’m just going. If I get lost, I’ll go a different way. And if
I run into any hazards, I’ll hop around them. Well, here I go. See you when
I get somewhere.”
Other forms: Haphazardly (adv); haphazardness (noun)
Sentence: Martin planted the trees haphazardly, scattering them around the
yard.
HARANGUE (her-RANG) noun — a long, lecturing speech
Sounds like: her gang
Picture: A meeting of a women’s gang. The leader is delivering an endless
lecture about the importance of wearing helmets on the road. (One member
interrupts: “But we’re driving stationwagons.”)
Other form: Harangue (verb)
Sentence: We began wearing earplugs at work to get some relief from his
harangues.
HARBOR (HAR-ber) verb — to provide shelter or refuge; hide
Sounds exactly like: harbor (the body of water)
Picture: While fishermen prowl around on the ocean, an organization called
“The Undersea Railroad,” run by large turtles and seals, helps get fish into
the harbor, where they can hide until it’s safe.
Sentence: Harboring a known criminal is a crime in itself.
HARDY (HARD-ee) adj— bold; brave; capable of withstanding harsh
conditions
Looks like: hard Y
Picture: The letters of the alphabet are in a log cabin, holding a contest to
see who can stand out in the cold for the longest time. Now 25 of them have
come in to sit near the fire. Several letters are looking out the window at the
Y, standing in the snow. It’s below zero and windy, but Y doesn’t move. “He
is one hard letter,” says R. “Hey, U, why don’t you go out there and tell him
to come in?” “Not me,” answers U. “We vowels are too soft for this kind of
weather.”
Other forms: Hardiness (noun); hardily (adv) Don’t confuse with “hearty,”
which means “enthusiastic.”
Sentence: Lewis and Clark were hardy explorers of rugged terrain.
HEDGE (HEJ) verb — to avoid giving a clear answer, thereby escaping
responsibility or blame
Sounds exactly like: hedge
Picture: A wealthy woman is questioning her gardener about the horribly
trimmed hedge in front of her mansion. The gardener, not wishing to be
castigated, avoids the question with vague answers: “The hedge? I don’t
recall who trimmed it this week. I mean, yes, I am the only gardener, but
maybe one of the neighborhood kids sneaked into the toolshed and used the
clippers. I’m not saying that’s what happened, but then again, who can
know for sure...?”
Note: “Hedge” means to beat around the bush!
Sentence: Connected to the lie detector, Big Nick tried to hedge his way
through the test.
HEED (HEED) verb — notice; pay attention to
Sounds exactly like: he’d
Picture: A boy is about to leave for college. His mother is trying to hide her
sadness with an endless string of warnings (addressed to her husband):
“He’d better drive carefully. And he’d better call the minute he gets there.
And he’d better be listening to me. And he’d better brush his teeth after
dinner. And he’d better go to bed early tonight. That’s all I’m going to say,
but he’d better pay attention. And he’d better study every day. Is he
listening to me?”
Other form: Heed (noun) — as in, “to take heed.”
Sentence: It’s wise to heed the warnings of a coming hurricane or tornado.
HEINOUS (HAY-niss) adj — shockingly evil
Sounds like: hang us
Picture: Three men standing on the steps of the gallows, three nooses
dangling from the cross-bar. One of the men says to the sheriff, “Our crimes
were heinous. All you can do is hang us.”
Sentence: An especially heinous crime can leave a community in shock for
years.
HERESY (HEHR-eh-see) noun — an opinion expressed in defiance of
generally accepted ideas
Sounds like: her a C
Picture: A college philosophy class. Two students are discussing the grade a
third student received: “He gave her a C just because she titled her paper,
Socrates Was An Idiot.”
Other forms: Heretic (noun); heretical (adj)
Sentence: In centuries past, people were burned at the stake for heretical
comments.
HIATUS (high-ATE-us) noun — gap; interruption; a break in
continuity; a pause
Sounds like: Hi, Atus
Picture: A group of bricklayers building a wall. As the foreman, a man
named Atus, inspects the five-foot-high wall, he comes to a gap — a place
where the wall is only a foot high, as if the bricklayer assigned to that
portion had stopped working several hours ago. Just then he hears someone
yell out, “Hi, Atus!” and turns around to find the missing bricklayer lying
down on a lounge chair. The brick layer explains, “I needed a little break.”
Sentence: Some companies take a summer hiatus, closing down completely
for weeks.
HIERARCHY (HY-er-ar-kee) noun — a group of people in authority,
ranked in order of power; a sequential listing
Sounds like: hire Archie
Picture: The executive board meeting of a large corporation. The chairman
is standing at a flip-chart showing the company’s chain of command,
beginning with him at the top. Each of the boxes below the chairman on the
chart has the name of a vice president or assistant vice president, except one
box, which is blank. The chairman is saying, “I want you to hire Archie for
this position. I think he’d fit very well into the hierarchy of the company.”
Other form: Hierarchical (adj)
Sentence: The military is a hierarchy: each level is more powerful than the
ones below it.
HOMAGE (OMM-ij) noun — respect paid to someone or something;
tribute; honor
Looks like: home age
Picture: A very, very, very old house. The house has been restored to its
original appearance and is beautifully decorated. From miles around, real
estate agents, historians, and tourists come to visit the old house and show
their respect. “I don’t even know the home’s age,” says one visitor, “but I
feel I should pay homage to it.”
Sentence: We pay homage to certain people by putting their images on
stamps and currency.
HOMOGENEOUS (ho-mo-JEEN-ee-us) adj — the same throughout;
consistent; uniform
Sounds like: home of genius
Picture: A genius is being studied by a team of scientists. They’re trying to
determine if anything about her home life has contributed to her amazing
mental abilities. When they arrive they find that the home of this genius is
remarkably consistent: all of the rooms are exactly the same size, the walls
are all the same color, and every piece of furniture is the same height and
style. In addition, the light bulbs are all 75 watts, the air is always
maintained at 70 degrees, and every book in the house contains exactly 384
pages. “Hmmm,” says one of the scientists, “maybe the home of a genius
needs to be homogeneous.”
Other forms: Homogeneousness (noun); homogeneously (adv)
Sentence: If you add chocolate syrup to a glass of milk and stir, you’ll get a
homogeneous mixture.
HYPERBOLE (hi-PURR-boe-lee) noun — extreme exaggeration
Looks like: Hyper Bowl
Think of two things: the use of the word, “hype,” meaning to heavily
promote something, thus exaggerating its attraction, and football’s Super
Bowl, which is usually hyped beyond belief. Now combine these two ideas
and imagine a “Hyper Bowl,” a game that requires the two teams to outexaggerate each other. The players are lined up, face-to-face. Someone from
one side says, “You don’t have a chance against us. We won our last game
by forty-seven touchdowns.” Someone from the other team responds, “By
the time we’re finished, they’ll have to pick you guys out of the grass with
tweezers.”
Sentence: “I’ve told you a million times” is an example of hyperbole.
HYPOCRITE (HIP-oh-crit) noun — an insincere person; one who
pretends to have feelings he doesn’t really possess
Sounds like: hippo crit
Picture: A hippopotamus smiling at his friend, even as he steals his wallet.
Other form: Hypocritical (adj)
Sentence: Don’t be a hypocrite -- say what you mean!
IDOLATRY (eye-DOLL-uh-tree) noun — the worship of objects or
people as gods
Sounds like: a doll, a tree
Picture: People had been coming from all over town, and now they’re
arriving from other states, to see the man who worships the doll in the tree.
He has placed one of his daughter’s dolls high up in a maple tree on his
front lawn, and every morning at 7 o’clock he kneels on the damp grass and
bows before the doll, praying and asking for forgiveness.
Other forms: Idolater (noun); idolize (verb); idolatrous (adj)
Sentence: In Judeo-Christian scripture, idolatry is forbidden by the Ten
Commandments.
IMBUE (im-BYOO) verb — to fill, as with a strong dye or a strong
feeling
Looks like: I’m blue
Picture: A worker at the dye factory has fallen into the blue vat. When he
pulls himself out, his clothes and skin are completely imbued with the dye.
“How do you feel?” his co-workers ask. He responds simply, “I’m blue.”
Sentence: The speaker imbued her audience with powerful feelings of
confidence.
IMMINENT (IMM-uh-nint) adj — about to take place; happening soon
Sounds like: in a minute
Picture: A farmer and his son discussing the tornado that’s supposed to be
on its way. The father, listening to the radio: “They say the tornado is
imminent. When do you think it will get here?” The son, looking out the
window, sees the dark funnel on the horizon. “In a minute,” he says.
Other forms: Imminently (adv); imminence (noun)
Sentence: Another stabbing contraction and the pregnant woman knew the
birth was imminent.
IMMUTABLE (im-MYOO-tah-bull) adj — unable to change
Looks like: a mute table
Picture: Two chairs have been trying, without success, to strike up a
conversation with a table. As the table sits silently (mutely), one chair says
to the other, “It’s no use. Tables just don’t talk. They never have and I guess
they never will.”
Other forms: Immutability (noun); immutably (adv)
Sentence: The speed of light seems to be an immutable law of nature.
IMPAIR (im-PARE) verb — weaken in strength or value
Looks like: I’m pair
Picture: An exhausted pear seated at his desk, holding a lamp and talking
into it.
Other forms: Impairment (noun); impaired (adj)
Sentence: Ed’s concentration was impaired by alcohol.
IMPASSE (IM-pass) noun — a situation from which you cannot escape;
stalemate
Sounds like: him pass
Picture: Two cars face each other, front-bumper-to-front-bumper, on a
narrow road. There isn’t enough room for them to go around each other, and
neither driver is willing to back up, so they sit. An observer on the side of
the road watches the conflict, listening to each driver yell, “I refuse to let
him pass!”
Don’t confuse with: Impassive. Sentence: The two sides reached an impasse
and negotiations were halted.
IMPASSIVE (im-PASS-iv) adj — without feeling; expressionless
Looks like: Impasse (refer to the situation described under IMPASSE ,
above)
Picture: The person watching the impasse between the two drivers is
looking on impassively. He is totally unconcerned with how the conflict
will be resolved and, as the drivers grow angrier and angrier, he remains
calm and expressionless (impassive).
Other forms: Impassively (adv); impassivity (noun)
Sentence: Strangely calm, Margaret watched impassively as her car rolled
into the river.
IMPEDE (im-PEED) verb — get in the way; hinder
Looks like: I’m Pete
Picture: Pete walks out onto the track while a women’s relay race is going
on. Just as two racers are about to exchange the baton, he walks between
them and says to one, “I’m Pete.”
Other form: Impediment (noun) Sentence: In baseball, a fielder may not
impede the progress of a runner.
IMPETUOUS (im-PETCH-oo-us) adj — taking sudden action; hasty;
impulsive
Sounds like: in pet shoes
Picture: Wife comes home with the family sheepdog. Husband is watching
TV and looks over to see that the dog is wearing very stylish shoes on all
four paws. “I just bought them without thinking,” wife explains. “They
were there in the window, we were walking by, we both liked them, so I
bought them. I know it was impetuous, but hey, he does have that kennel
dance next Friday.”
Other forms: Impetuosity (nouns); impetuously (adv) Don’t confuse with:
Impetus
Sentence: People who think before they act may look upon the impetuous
with curiosity.
IMPOSTOR (im-POSS-ter) noun — pretender
Looks like: I’m Postor
Picture: A man named Mr. Postor is about to receive a special award that
includes a $25,000 prize, many gifts, and the praise and respect of
thousands of people. Suddenly, another man bursts into the room yelling,
“Wait! I’m Postor! He’s a fake!”
Sentence: There are many impostors lurking on the Internet, so watch out!
IMPUDENCE (IMP-yoo-dense) noun — rudeness; insolence
Sounds like: in pew dance (a pew is a seat or bench in a church)
Picture: It’s Sunday morning and the church is filled. The minister is about
to begin her sermon when suddenly a man jumps up in his pew and
performs a wild dance. The churchgoers are shocked, to say the least, at his
rudeness and lack of consideration for others.
Other forms: Impudent (adj); impudently (adv)
Note: Don’t confuse with “imprudence,” which means “a lack of wisdom”
(see PRUDENT ).
Sentence: Impudence, or any disrespectful behavior, is not tolerated in a
court of law.
INADVERTENT (in-ad-VER-tent) adj — unintentional
Sounds like: in at her tent
Picture: An army troop camping out during an overnight hike. One of the
men accidentally walks into the tent of a female officer. Furious, she throws
him out. (One observer: “So he made a mistake. What’s the big deal?”
Second observer: “It’s the seventh time today he’s made that mistake.”)
Other form: Inadvertently (adv)
Sentence: The newspaper inadvertently switched the names under the
picture.
INANE (in-NANE) adj — silly; insignificant
Looks like: insane (without the “S”)
Picture: A man reads a letter from his psychiatrist, then cries to his wife:
“He says I’m insane!” When he becomes hysterically upset, she takes the
letter and reads it. “No, it says ‘inane,’” she tells him. “It’s nothing to worry
about. You’re just being silly.”
Other forms: Inanity (noun); inanely (adv)
Sentence: It’s hard to believe that grown men could argue over such inane
matters.
INAUGURATE (in-AWG-yer-ate) verb — begin; induct into
Sounds like: in Aug. you’re eight
Picture: The Mid-Childhood Club, made up of children between the ages of
eight and thirteen. The president is speaking to a new group of kids, all of
whom will be celebrating their 8th birthday on August 1st. The date is July
31: “In Aug. you’re eight, and each of you will be officially welcomed into
the Mid-Childhood Club.”
Other forms: Inauguration (noun); inaugural (adj)
Sentence: The President of the United States is inaugurated on January 20.
INCESSANT (in-SESS-ent) adj — continuous; endless
Sounds like: in says ant
Picture: An ant hill just before a storm. One ant stands at the door and says,
“In! In! In!” over and over and over as an endless stream of ants pours into
the shelter.
Other forms: Incessantly (adv); incessancy (noun)
Sentence: The incessant buzzing of mosquitoes drove us crazy.
INCHOATE (ink-OH-ett) adj — not yet fully developed
Sounds like: ink oh-eight
Picture: A tank, such as one you would see at a winery. But this is an inkery,
where ink is made and stored. The ink in one particular tank was produced
in 2008 and has not aged enough, so is not yet ready for use. The tank is
labeled, “Ink 0-8.”
Sentence: The inchoate army needs a great deal more training.
INCITE (in-SITE) verb — arouse to action; stir up; foment
Sounds like: ignite
Picture: A small country that has been controlled by a foreign nation for
many years. One day, on the tenth anniversary of the country’s takeover, a
woman runs through the streets of the capital. She calls for action, urging
the citizens to fight for their freedom. Like a spark falling into dry grass,
she ignites a fire of anger among the people, and it quickly grows into a
blazing revolution.
Other form: Incitement (noun) Note: Don’t confuse with “insight,” the
ability to perceive.
Sentence: The angry miner incited his co-workers to strike.
INCOMPATIBLE (in-kum-PAT-a-bull) adj — incapable of existing
together in peace
Sounds like: in combat with Bill
Picture: A woman has left her husband and gone to stay with a friend. “It’s
no use,” she says. “Every day I find myself in combat with Bill. We just
cannot get along.”
Other forms: Incompatibility (noun); incompatibly (adv)
Sentence: Very often, two male animals are incompatible.
INCONGRUOUS (in-KON-groo-uss) adj — out of place
Sounds like: in Congress
Picture: The U.S. Capitol (Congress) with something unexpected in the
middle of the picture.
Other forms: Incongruity (noun); incongruously (adv)
Sentence: A tuxedo would be incongruous at the beach.
INCORRIGIBLE (in-KORR-ij-uh-bull) adj — impossible to correct,
control, or discipline
Sounds like: in car itch a bull
Picture: A bull family out for a drive in their Ford Taurus. One of the
children in the back seat has put fleas and ticks under his father’s seat. The
father, trying to drive, is squirming from the itch. Mother Bull scolds her
son: “You are absolutely incorrigible!”
Other forms: Incorrigibility (noun); incorrigibly (adv)
Sentence: Those prisoners deemed incorrigible are often separated from the
others.
INCREDULOUS (in-CREJ-oo-luss) adj — unwilling or unable to
believe
Sounds like: ink red, you lose!
Picture: A man is playing roulette at a casino. He’s been at it a while,
winning, losing, winning, losing. Now he’s put all of his money, including
his car keys and the deed to his house, on “25 Black.” The attendant spins
the wheel and talks as the wheel slows down: “looking for black ink,
looking for black ink, looking for black... and ink’s red, you lose!” The man
stares at the wheel for a long time. “I can’t believe it,” he says. “I just can’t
believe it!”
Other forms: Incredulity (noun); incredulously (adv)
Note: An object or event is incredible; the person observing it is
incredulous. Also, connect with other words containing the root “cred,”
such as credence, credulous, credibility, credentials, and credit; all have to
do with “belief.”
Sentence: He watched incredulously as his dog got into the family minivan
and drove away.
INDICT (in-DITE) verb — charge with a crime; accuse
Sounds like: in tight
Picture: A man has his right arm stuck in the cash slot of an automated teller
machine at the bank. An alarm has sounded and the police are about to
come in. “I’m really in tight here,” he thinks. “I’m sure they’re going to
charge me with attempted robbery.”
Other form: Indictment (noun)
Sentence: The gangster was indicted on four counts of murder.
INDIGENT (INN-deh-jint) adj — very poor
Sounds like: Indy Gent
Picture: A very poor man named Indy Gent. His clothes are tattered and
dirty and he has few or no possessions.
Other forms: Indigence, indigent (nouns)
Note: Don’t confuse this word with “indigenous,” which means “native or
inborn.” Or “indignant,” which means “angry.”
Sentence: Pauline works hard to help the homeless and the indigent.
INDOLENT (INN-doe-lent) adj — lazy
Connect with: Indigent. Picture Indy Gent, who is very poor. Now think of
why he’s so poor. Maybe he’s extremely lazy and doesn’t want to work. So
he’s indigent because he’s indolent. To distinguish between the two similar
sounding words, remember that indolent has an “L” in it, for lazy.
Other forms: Indolence (noun); indolently (adv)
Sentence: Martha was a hard worker and could not tolerate indolence in her
children.
INDUCE (in-DOOSE) verb — cause to happen; bring about
Sounds like: in deuce
Picture: Two well-known tennis players are engaged in a long and difficult
match. One player falls behind in the final game, then suddenly manages to
lure his opponent into a series of mistakes (he’s caused the mistakes to
happen). Now they’re in deuce.
Other forms: Inducement (noun); inducible (adj)
Sentence: He was a persuasive salesman and could induce his customers to
buy almost anything.
INERT (ih-NERT) adj — lacking movement; inactive; sluggish
Sounds like: in dirt
Picture: Fossils of animals found deep in the dirt. They have remained
motionless and unchanged for many thousands of years. They are inert.
Other forms: Inertness, inertia (nouns); inertly (adv)
Sentence: The Dark Ages are typically portrayed as a time of cultural
inertness.
INFALLIBLE (in-FAHL-ih-bull) adj — incapable of making a mistake
Looks like: in fall a bell
Picture: A tall tower in the middle of town. In the tower there is a bell that
rings just once a year, at the moment summer ends and fall begins. Whether
the season starts on September 20, 21, or 22, the bell always rings exactly
on schedule, to the second. It never makes a mistake.
Other forms: Infallibility (noun); infallibly (adv) Alternate approach: Just
think of “infailable.”
Sentence: An infallible system for predicting numbers would spell the end
of all lotteries.
INFAMY (INN-fuh-mee) noun — a bad reputation; notoriety
Sounds like: in for me
Picture: A lifelong criminal is complaining about the news media. “They’ve
got it in for me,” he says. “And why? What have I done? Some bank
robberies, two or three dozen murders, a kidnapping here and there. So
where did I get this terrible reputation?”
Other form: Infamous (adj) Sentence: Some criminals seek immortality by
living on in infamy.
INFER (in-FER) verb — to figure out, based on given information;
conclude; deduce
Sounds like: in fur
Picture: A scientist finds a baby seal on the shore and notices that the seal’s
fur is coated with oil. From this information (the oil in the fur), the scientist
concludes that there has been an oil spill in the area.
Other form: Inference (noun) Note: Infer doesn’t mean “to imply” or “to
suggest.” When you infer something, you take in information.
Sentence: We can infer from his casual dress that he didn’t read the
invitation carefully.
INFILTRATE (IN-fil-trayt) verb — penetrate by passing through gaps;
enter secretly and become established, such as a spy might do in an
enemy organization
Sounds like: infield rate
Picture: The owner of a major league baseball team is upset. Someone has
leaked to the press very secret information about what she’s paying the
infielders on the team (infield rate). “There’s a spy among us,” she tells her
board of directors. “Someone has infiltrated this organization and is telling
our financial business to the newspapers. Now all the outfielders will want
raises.”
Other form: Infiltration (noun) Sentence: Intelligence agencies try to
infiltrate enemy organizations.
INGENUOUS (in-JEN-yoo-us) adj — naive; unsophisticated;
inexperienced
Looks like: ingenious
Remember: “Ingenuous” and “ingenious” look almost exactly alike, so it’s
easy to confuse them. Take a good long look at both words. Learn to
distinguish between them. (In a sense, they’re opposites.)
Now, imagine a brilliant person, such as Thomas Edison, who has come up
with an ingenious invention, such as the light bulb. Now also imagine that
Mr. Edison is pretty unsophisticated, or ingenuous, when it comes to
business. He might say something like, “Okay, so it lights up. Big deal.
Who’s going to buy it? Everyone has candles. Maybe I’ll just give it to my
cousin Phil, and if he wants to market it, let him make a few bucks.” Mrs.
Edison replies, “Tom, you’re so ingenious, but you’re also ingenuous.”
Other forms: ingenuousness (noun); ingenuously (adv) Connect with:
Disingenuous (“shrewd”)
Sentence: His ingenuous manner led us to believe he was incapable of
deceit.
INNATE (in-NATE) adj — having a quality that arises from within,
rather than learned or acquired from the outside; native; inborn
Sounds like: Inn Eight
Picture: A woman and man are looking through a guidebook in search of a
country inn for their vacation. “I like inn number eight,” says the woman,
pointing at a number on a map in the book. “It doesn’t have a swimming
pool, or a fancy menu, or a golf course nearby. But there seems to be
something about this place. It has an innate quality, a charm the others are
missing.”
Other forms: Innateness (noun); innately (adv) Note: Be careful not to
confuse “innate” with “inane.”
Sentence: Elephants have an innate tendency to stick together and help each
other.
INNOCUOUS (in-NOK-yoo-uss) adj — harmless; inoffensive
Sounds like: inn octopus
Picture: A couple arriving for a weekend stay at a country inn. The
innkeeper points out the dining room, the fireplace in the library, and the
live octopus in the parlor. “Don’t worry about him,” the host says to the
startled guests. “He’s harmless.”
Other form: Innocuously (adv)
Sentence: The drink looked innocuous, but actually contained a deadly
poison.
INNOVATION (in-no-VAY-shun) noun — a new idea, product, or
method
Sounds like: an ovation
Picture: An inventor talking to the producer of a TV show. He has invented
a device that simulates the sound of a crowd giving an ovation. The
producer considers it a great innovation, because it eliminates the need for
live people, who could be unpredictable in their responses to the show.
Other forms: Innovative (adj); innovate (verb)
Sentence: The twentieth century was probably the richest period of
innovation in history.
 (in-SKROO-tuh-bull) adj — mysterious
Sounds like: on scooter bull
Picture: Archeologists have discovered drawings on the walls of a cave. The
drawings are thousands of years old and clearly show a bull riding a
scooter. “We shall call these drawings, “On Scooter Bull,” says a scientist.
“But we may never know what they mean.”
Other forms: Inscrutability (noun); inscrutably (adv)
Sentence: People have always longed to understand the inscrutable
universe.
INSIPID (in-SIP-id) adj — dull; flat; without sparkle or flavor
Sounds like: in! sip it!
Picture: A young child, sick with the flu. Her mother is trying to get her to
drink some flat ginger ale to calm the child’s upset stomach. “In!” she says.
“In! Sip it! I know it has no flavor. Just sip it.”
Other form: Insipidly (adv)
Sentence: Amy was surprised that her husband could enjoy such a boring,
insipid movie.
INSOLENT (IN-so-lent) adj — rude; haughty
Sounds like: insulin (a hormone produced by the pancreas)
Picture: A meeting of the body’s internal organs. Each speaks in turn.
Suddenly the pancreas starts yelling about how important he is, and how the
body wouldn’t be able to absorb carbohydrates without his insulin, and how
he should be thanked for the work he does. (“There he goes again,” says the
liver. “Spouting insulin and insolence. I hope he doesn’t get the stomach
upset.”)
Other forms: Insolence (noun); insolently (adv)
Sentence: Lenny was suspended from school for his insolent behavior.
INSOLVENT (in-SOL-vent) adj — unable to pay bills; bankrupt
Sounds like: in Sol’s vent
Picture: The owner of a small business walks to the bank to make a deposit.
Right in front of Sol’s Ripoff Emporium he trips, dropping the bag of
money down a vent in the sidewalk. When he looks down, he sees the bag,
but it’s now in Sol’s basement. Sol is a crook and will never give it back.
“All my money’s in Sol’s vent!” he cries. “Now I won’t be able to pay my
bills!”
Other form: Insolvency (noun)
Sentence: The workers’ morale was low because they knew the company
was facing insolvency.
INTERMITTENT (in-ter-MIT-tint) adj — occurring at intervals;
periodic; not constant or continual
Sounds like: in her mitten
Picture: A little girl stands outside in the falling snow. Every once in a
while, a snowflake lands in her mitten. She never knows when it will
happen, but she knows it will happen again soon.
Other forms: Intermittently (adv); intermission (noun)
Sentence: The intermittent showers were followed by long periods of
sunshine.
INTRACTABLE (in-TRACK-tah-bull) adj — stubborn; immovable
Looks like: in-track table
Picture: A table wedged between railroad tracks. Two people are trying to
move it. “It’s no use,” says one. “It refuses to budge.”
Other forms: Intractability (noun); intractably (adv)
Sentence: Rita was intractable in her belief that she’d been abducted by
aliens.
INTRINSIC (in-TRIN-zik) adj — located within the very nature of an
object or person; inherent
Sounds like: in train sick
Picture: A man and woman on a train. The man looks as if he’s about to
either throw up or pass out. Meanwhile, his wife explains to the conductor,
“No, it isn’t the motion or the speed or the noise, because he doesn’t get
sick on cars or airplanes or roller coasters. There’s some quality intrinsic to
trains that makes him feel sick.”
Other form: Intrinsically (adv)
Sentence: Clean water has intrinsic value, while antique cars have market
value.
INVERT (in-VERT) verb — turn upside down or inside out; reverse
position
Looks like: invent
Picture: A scientist named Dr. Bert Invert, who has invented a device that
turns objects upside down, regardless of their size or weight. When you
enter Dr. Invert’s lab, you notice that tables, chairs, desks, and lamps are all
upside down. “I was going to invert the entire building,” he says, “but the
plumber advised against it.”
Other forms: Inversion (noun); inverted and invertible (adj)
Sentence: The man at the print shop accidentally inverted the image on the
poster.
IRASCIBLE (ihr-RASS-ih-bull) adj — easily angered
Sounds like: erase a bull
Picture: A very tempermental artist has been trying to draw a bull for
several days, but every version looks worse than the one before. As he gets
angrier and angrier, he screams at himself, “Draw a bull, erase a bull. Draw
a bull, erase a bull!”
Other forms: Irascibleness (noun); irascibly (adv)
Sentence: He’s irascible in the morning; don’t talk to him before noon.
IRONY (EYE-rah-nee) or (EYE-er-nee) noun — an unexpected outcome,
or the use of a word that is the opposite of its literal meaning
Sounds like: iron knee
Picture: A basketball player who wished for knees like iron. Instead, he got
irons on his knees.
Other forms: Ironic (adj); ironically (adv)
Sentence: It’s ironic that he tripped on a crutch and broke his leg.
IRRESOLUTE (eer-REZ-uh-loot) adj — indecisive; unsure
Sounds like: ear razor loot
Picture: A man, dressed as a giant ear, in the audience of “Let’s Make A
Deal.” Does he keep the electric razor he’s won or go for the loot behind
door number 3? “I’ll keep the razor. No, wait, I’ll take the loot. I don’t
know, the razor or the loot? How much time do I have? Can I call you in the
morning?”
Other forms: Irresoluteness (noun); irresolutely (adv)
Sentence: His irresolute attitude about getting married caused her to call off
the wedding.
IRREVERENT (eer-REV-rent) adj — disrespectful
Sounds like: ear Reverend
Picture: In the lobby of the church hangs a photograph of the Reverend.
One of the members of the congregation, obviously lacking in respect for
this particular member of the clergy, has painted enormous ears on the
Reverend’s picture.
Other forms: Irreverence (noun); irreverently (adv) Connect with: Revere
(opposite)
Sentence: Pamela’s irreverent remarks got her into trouble with her
supervisor.
JARGON (JARR-gun) noun — specialized language used by a
particular group
Sounds like: jar gone
Picture: Policeman questioning the burglary victim: “So you’re saying that
the alleged perpetrator unlawfully removed from your domicile one widemouthed vessel made principally of earthenware?” Victim pointing to
empty shelf: “No, what I’m saying is that my jar is gone.”
Sentence: The use of jargon can be an efficient way to communicate,
especially in an emergency.
JAUNDICE (JAWN-diss) noun — yellow color; or, envy or resentment
Sounds like: enjoying this
Picture: The little third-grade girl couldn’t wait for her mother to come to
Parents’ Night at her school so she could show off her artwork. Everyone in
the class had to draw and then paint something yellow. The girl drew
pencils and bananas and daffodils, painted them all yellow, wrote “Yellow
Stuff” at the top, and taped it to her classroom wall. But when her mother
came into the room, she stopped at another girl’s work (called “Color My
World Yellow”) and admired it so much she couldn’t tear herself away to
look at her daughter’s painting. “I’m sorry, dear,” the mother said, “but I’m
enjoying this. I’ll see yours later.” The little girl could only look on in envy.
Other form: Jaundiced (adj)
Sentence: Jaundice, a yellowish look to the skin, may be a sign of liver
trouble.
JAUNTY (JAWN-tee) adj — lively; perky
Sounds like: jointy
Picture: A wooden puppet dancing around, each of his joints swinging
freely and rhythmically.
Other forms: Jauntiness (noun); jauntily (adv) Note: Don’t confuse with
“jaunt” (a short trip).
Sentence: The host’s jaunty mood soon had everyone enjoying the party.
JEOPARDY (JEP-er-dee) noun — the threat or possibility of danger
Sounds exactly like: Jeopardy! (the TV show)
Picture: The set of the Jeopardy! show. The three contestants are standing
behind their podiums. Suddenly, the player in the lead finds himself in
possible danger because of the resentment of one of his fellow contestants.
Other form: Jeopardize (verb)
Sentence: One drunk driver can put many lives in jeopardy.
JETTISON (JET-ih-sun) verb — to throw overboard; to discard
Sounds like: jet a son
Picture: A jet plane ten thousand feet up and running out of fuel. The
captain tells the flight attendants to open one of the emergency doors and
get rid of all unnecessary cargo in order to make the plane lighter. One of
the passengers offers to throw his teenage son out if it would help.
Sentence: The rocket jettisons its external fuel tanks after launch.
JOCULAR (JOCK-yoo-ler) adj — joking; playful; jesting; witty
Sounds like: Dracula
Picture: Count Dracula is working as a stand-up comedian, using the name
Count Jocular: (“...So he says to me, ‘I can’t take blood from a stone.’ I say,
I know, I’ve been trying for years!”)
Other forms: Jocularity (noun); jocularly (adv)
Connect with: “Jocose” and “jocund,” which have similar meanings to
“jocular.” Just about any unfamiliar word you come across that begins with
“joc” will have something to do with “joke.”
Sentence: Her jocular personality kept everyone loose during the long flight
across the Pacific.
JUBILANT (JOO-bill-ent) adj — filled with joy
Sounds like: gerbil ant
Picture: A gerbil and an ant are very happy to see each other after a long
time. They hug and dance and smile and kiss each other. (“I’m sorry I
haven’t called,” says the gerbil, “but I do about twelve miles a day on that
wheel and it really wears me out.” “I know what you mean,” replies the ant,
“I’ve been working with a bunch of carpenter friends on a wood-frame
house a few blocks from here, and that’s been keeping me busy for months.
But I’m so happy to see you!”)
Other forms: Jubilation (noun); jubilantly (adv)
Sentence: Rescue workers were jubilant when they found someone alive
under the rubble.
JUDICIOUS (joo-DISH-uss) adj — wise; making good decisions
Sounds like: Jew dishes
Picture: Passover is an important holiday for Jewish people. For those who
celebrate it in the most traditional way, special dishes are used for the food
— dishes that are used only for Passover. Imagine a family that’s about to
begin the Passover ceremony. The man says to his wife, “I think you made a
wise decision by taking out your grandmother’s old dishes this year. They
make the table look beautiful!”
Other forms: Judiciousness (noun); judiciously (adv)
Sentence: Even when there isn’t much to do, good employees will make
judicious use of their time.
JUNCTURE (JUNK-sher) noun — point in time, especially a crucial
one; joint or connection
Sounds like: junk chair
Picture: You are one of seven people playing musical chairs. Everyone is
circling the six chairs and the music has just stopped. You look at the two
chairs you have stopped between; one looks okay but the other seems to be
falling apart. It is time to make a crucial decision: do you take a chance
with the junk chair, which is closer, or do you lunge for the sturdier-looking
chair?
Sentence: The bombing of Pearl Harbor was a key juncture in modern
world history.
JUXTAPOSE (juk-stah-POZE) verb — to place side-by-side
Sounds like: just suppose
Picture: A woman in her living room, listening to the interior decorator, who
is holding a painting of a shark and a photograph of the woman’s three
small children. “Just suppose we do this,” he says. (He wants to place the
pictures side-by-side, but when he does so, it looks as though the shark is
about to swallow the children.)
Other form: Juxtaposition (noun)
Sentence: The juxtaposition of sound is important in music.
KINDLE (KIN-dil) verb — to start a fire; ignite; arouse
Sounds like: candle
Picture: A young man is serving dinner to his date, who is seated opposite
him at an elegant table. He lights one of the candles, hoping the romantic
atmosphere will kindle feelings of love in the woman. Instead, he
accidentally knocks the candle over onto the tablecloth, kindling a small but
disruptive fire.
Sentence: Often it is one special teacher who kindles a student’s lifelong
interest in a subject.
KINETIC (kin-ETT-ik) adj — in motion; active
Sounds like: Connecticut
Picture: You’re in a rocket orbiting the Earth. As you pass over the
northeastern United States, you notice the entire region is absolutely still,
except in Connecticut, where everything is in motion. Trees are hopping,
buildings are sliding from block to block, and mountains are spinning like
inverted tops.
Sentence: A falling object has kinetic energy.
LACONIC (luh-KONN-ik) adj — quiet; of few words; terse
Sounds like: Lake Onnic
Picture: A lake hidden in the woods of Maine, where the birds sing one note
at a time. A man rows a boat across the lake; a woman rows her boat from
the opposite side. As they pass, he says, “Morning.” She replies, “Bye.”
And so it is on Lake Onnic, where the people keep things inside and say
very little.
Sentence: A monastery might be the perfect place for a laconic man.
LAMENT (luh-MENT) verb — express sorrow; complain
Sounds like: lamb mint
Picture: A flock of sheep has wandered into town, looking for one of their
lost members. As they pass a restaurant, they notice “Lamb with Mint Jelly”
on the menu. Immediately, their imaginations run wild and they convince
themselves that the lamb on the menu is the lamb they’ve been looking for.
Overcome with grief and sorrow, they all sit on the sidewalk in front of the
restaurant, moaning and wailing.
Other forms: Lament, lamentation (nouns); lamentable (adj); lamentably
(adv)
Sentence: The embarrassing incident at the salad bar was simply a
lamentable mistake.
LANGUISH (LANG-gwish) verb — lose energy or motivation; become
weak or depressed
Sounds like: Lang wish
Picture: A young man named Lang. He graduated from college eight
months ago and has been lying around ever since. Every day he says to his
dog, lying on the floor next to him, “I wish I could find the energy to go get
a job, but I’m just too tired today.”
Connect with: Languor (noun); languorous (adj)
Sentence: The unmotivated team languished in last place all season.
LATENT (LAY-tint) adj — existing but inactive, such as a certain
quality; dormant; invisible
Looks like: Latin
Picture: A woman who learned Latin when she was very young, then
ignored it for the next seventy years. Throughout her adult life, Latin words
and phrases would occasionally race through her mind and roll around in
her mouth, but she would never express them. Her fluency in the language
still resided within her, but she stifled it, so that her Latin remained dormant
— a latent ability.
Other form: Latency (noun)
Sentence: A disease can remain in the body, latent and undetected, for
years.
LAUD (LAWD) verb — praise; worship; extol
Sounds like: lord
Picture: A minister preaching in a church in Alabama. “Laud,” he says in his
Alabama accent, “you are truly great! Laud, we worship and extol you.
Laud, we offer you our praise!”
Other forms: Laudatory, laudable (adj); laudably (adv)
Sentence: The review was completely laudatory -- it didn’t contain a single
negative comment.
LEGACY (LEGG-uh-see) noun — something inherited, either from an
ancestor or from the past itself
Sounds like: leg I see
Picture: The nephew is waiting patiently as his uncle’s will is being read.
Finally it is announced that he has inherited a single leg of an antique chair.
“A leg, I see,” he says.
Note: A legacy could be a physical gift, such as money, or something
abstract, such as knowledge.
Sentence: Her funding of the museum was a legacy to future generations.
LETHARGIC (leh-THAR-jik) adj — tired; sluggish; drowsy
Sounds like: leather chick
Picture: A young chicken is trying to run around the barn, but she’s too
tired. The problem is that when she hatched she was covered with leather
instead of feathers, and the combination of heat and the weight of the
leather has drained her of all her energy.
Other forms: Lethargy (noun); lethargically (adv)
Sentence: He’d intended to mow the lawn, but was too lethargic and simply
fell asleep.
LEVITY (LEV-ih-tee) noun — lightness; playfulness; jocularity
Sounds like: levitate
Picture: A magician is levitating his assistant; that is, he is causing her to
float in mid-air without ropes or wires. Normally, magicians are very
serious about this part of their act, asking the audience to keep silent,
dimming the lights, and behaving as if the assistants were in some sort of
danger. However, this particular magician is quite the opposite. As he
levitates the young woman, he dances around, smiles, and tells jokes.
“Excuse my levity, folks, but I’m just trying to get a rise out of her!”
Sentence: Even the most serious films usually have moments of levity.
LIONIZE (LIE-uh-nize) verb — to put someone onto a pedestal; to treat
with great respect
Sounds like: lion eyes
Picture: In the jungle, a group of lions has decided to honor a leopard for
his courage, strength, and skill. He has what they call “lion eyes,” and has
therefore been chosen to be an honorary lion, making him a great celebrity
in the jungle.
Sentence: Abraham Lincoln is now lionized by members of all political
parties.
LISTLESS (LIST-less) adj — tired; sluggish; lacking drive
Sounds exactly like: list less
Picture: Doctor speaking to a tired-looking patient: “When did you start
feeling this way?” The patient replies, “I found this list in a magazine, ‘Ten
Ways to Stay Energetic.’ But I lost the list last week, and I’ve been
exhausted ever since.”
Other forms: Listlessness (noun); listlessly (adv)
Sentence: People who have trouble sleeping are often listless during the
day.
LOATH (LOATH) adj — reluctant; unwilling
Sounds like: load
Picture: You’ve just finished watering and combing your prize-winning
lawn. A dump truck filled with rocks and boulders pulls up in front of your
house. The driver gets out and tells you that he’s supposed to dump the load
onto your lawn. You, of course, are loath to let him do so.
Sentence: Nancy loved her kids, but she was loath to eat the breakfast
they’d made for her.
LOATHE (LOATH) verb — to hate
Sounds exactly like: loath
So how do you tell “loath” and “loathe” apart? It’s easy: just look at the end
of the word “loathe,” which means “to hate.” Loathe has the letters H-A-TE in it (they’re jumbled a bit, but they’re there). So if you can spell hate,
that’s what it means.
Other forms: Loathsomeness, loathing (nouns); loathsome (adj);
loathsomely (adv)
Sentence: Crimes against children are considered loathsome, even among
other criminals.
LOFTY (LAWF-tee) adj — at a great height; elevated; noble
Sounds like: loft tea
Picture: A 50-story building. At the very top is a loft, being used by a group
of philosophers for a daily tea party. On the street, a man sweeps the
sidewalk and talks to a passerby, who is looking up toward the loft.
“They’re up there drinking fancy tea,” says the man, “and discussing their
lofty ideas.”
Other form: Loftiness (noun) Sentence: He was well into his eighties, yet he
still had lofty goals.
LOQUACIOUS (low-QUAY-shuss) adj — talkative
Sounds like: low gray shoes
Picture: A pair of low gray shoes; both are talking.
Other forms: Loquaciousness (noun); loquaciously (adv)
Sentence: The loquacious lady in the library irritated those trying to read.
LUCID (LOO-sid) adj — easy to understand; transparent; clearthinking
Sounds like: Lou said
Picture: A lecture, featuring a speaker named Lou, has just ended. As
members of the audience leave the auditorium, one of them can be heard to
say, “I understood everything Lou said. It was all so clear.”
Other forms: Lucidity (noun); lucidly (adv)
Sentence: Jerome was surprisingly lucid for someone who had just fallen on
his head.
LUDICROUS (LOO-dih-kruss) adj — absurd; ridiculous
Sounds like: Lou to cross
Picture: A 24-lane super highway. Cars are racing by at 80 mph in every
lane. Lou stands at the edge of the highway, waiting for a break in the
traffic so he can cross. “Lou,” yells a friend from a passing car, “it’s
ludicrous to think you can ever get across. There hasn’t been a break in this
traffic since 1986!” (“Well, isn’t that ludicrous?” Lou says. “Does that guy
really think I can hear him with all these cars going by?”)
Other forms: Ludicrousness (noun); ludicrously (adv)
Sentence: It’s ludicrous to say second-hand smoke is harmless.
LUGUBRIOUS (loo-GOOB-ree-uss) adj — mournful
Sounds like: Lou Goober’s
Picture: Lou Goober’s Funeral Home. Lou is a sad-looking guy.
Other forms: Lugubriousness (noun); lugubriously (adv)
Sentence: Lugubrious music saturated the funeral service.
MAGNANIMOUS (mag-NAN-ih-muss) adj — big-hearted; generous;
forgiving; noble
Sounds like: my Nanny Moose
Picture: Young moose telling her classmates about her grandma, Nanny
Moose, “the most generous, wonderful, kind-hearted moose in the whole
world.”
Other forms: Magnanimously (adv); magnanimity (noun) Note that the root
“magn” means great or large, while “anim” pertains to the mind, soul, or
spirit. Thus, big-hearted.
Sentence: Even after ten years in prison as an innocent man, he was
magnanimous upon his release.
MAGNATE (MAG-net) noun — a person of great power
Sounds like: magnet
Picture: A country populated by paper clips and other small, metal objects.
The country’s ruler is a large, powerful magnet. The magnet has total
influence and control over the citizens.
Sentence: A billionaire real estate magnate, he owned a quarter of the town.
The root “mal” means “bad.” For the next four entries, we will
examine the words and actions of an unpleasant person named Mal.
MALEDICTION (mal-uh-DIK-shun) noun — evil speech; curse
Sounds like: Mal eviction
Picture: Mal hasn’t paid his rent in five months and has received an eviction
notice. The letter explains that he must either pay all back rent within 30
days or be kicked out of his apartment. Furious, he calls his landlady on the
phone and screams and curses at her, and calls her horrible names.
Other form: Maledictory (adj)
Sentence: When angered, he could be a fountain of unkind thoughts and
malediction.
MALEFACTOR (mal-uh-FAK-ter) noun — person who tries to hurt
others; criminal
Sounds like: Mal he faxed her
Picture: Mal is still upset about the eviction notice (see MALEDICTION )
and plans to send his landlady a letter bomb. But instead of mailing the
letter bomb, he decides to fax it to her. Of course, she receives a harmless
letter, the fax machine blows up in Mal’s face, and he grows even angrier
(see MALICE ).
Other form: Malefaction (noun)
Sentence: She’d hoped he would be a benefactor, but he turned out to be the
opposite -- a malefactor.
MALICE (MAL-iss) noun — a desire to cause harm or suffering
Looks like: Mal ice
Picture: Mal is on the roof of his building with a gigantic block of ice,
which he’s about to drop onto his landlady’s head.
Other forms: Malicious (adj); maliciously (adv)
Sentence: He wasn’t just mean; he was malicious.
MALIGN (muh-LINE) verb — to say evil or harmful things about
someone; defame; vilify
Sounds like: Mal lying
Picture: Mal’s landlady has taken him to court for non-payment of rent. On
the witness stand, Mal pretends to be an innocent victim. Instead of
fighting, he decides to malign his landlady by lying about her. He says that
she called him up and said horrible things to him on the phone, faxed him a
letter bomb, and even tried to drop a block of ice on his head.
Other form: Malignant (adj)
Sentence: He was so angered to learn the tumor was malignant, he
maligned the entire hospital staff.
MALLEABLE (MAL-ee-uh-bull) adj — able to be reshaped by force;
pliable; impressionable
Sounds like: mallet-able
Picture: A woman who collects sculpture, but whose taste in art changes
every day. After purchasing dozens of sculptures, only to quickly grow tired
of them, she decides to buy one made of raw clay. She also goes to the
hardware store and gets herself a mallet (little hammer). Now, when she
gets bored with the sculpture’s shape, she beats it with the hammer until it
looks like something else. “It may not be marketable as art,” she says, “but
it sure is malleable.”
Other form: Malleability (noun)
Sentence: She enjoyed working with younger students, while their minds
were still malleable.
MARRED (MARD) adj — spoiled, scratched, blemished
Sounds like: Mars
Picture: The surface of Mars, which is pitted with craters.
Other form: Mar (verb)
Sentence: The new table arrived on time, but was marred by scratches and
dents.
MEAGER (MEE-ger) adj — small in size or amount; thin; weak
Sounds like: me grrr
Picture: A small, frail puppy has just been given his bowl, which contains a
tiny amount of food. As gigantic human feet walk by, the puppy expresses
his anger over the meager dinner: “Me grrrr!”
Other forms: Meagerness (noun); meagerly (adv)
Sentence: The movie promised plenty of action, but the plot was meager.
MEANDER (me-ANN-der) verb — wander in a carefree manner; follow
a winding course; ramble
Sounds like: me and her
Picture: A young man, newly in love, walks down a path along a winding
river, his arm around his girlfriend. They walk slowly, mindlessly, he
singing a song he makes up as they go along:
“Me and her,
My girl Wanda,
We love to wander,
Me and her...”
Other forms: Meandering (adj); meander (noun)
Sentence: Meandering through the woods without a destination was
Nancy’s favorite activity.
MELLIFLUOUS (mel-IF-loo-uss) adj — smooth; sweetly flowing
Sounds like: Mel leaf loose
Picture: Mel is an opera singer. His voice is so smooth, so sweet, that it
makes the trees shiver and lose their leaves. (A man raking the leaves might
say: “I never did like opera!”)
Other forms: Mellifluously (adv); mellifluent (adj)
Sentence: Many people enjoy the mellifluous sound of water running over
rocks.
MENDACITY (men-DAH-sih-tee) noun — a lie; a false statement
Sounds like: mend a city
Picture: Grandpa and Grandson sitting on the porch. Grandpa is telling one
of his famous stories: “It was 1929, I guess. I was living in California, a
place called Menda City. Well, one morning an earthquake hit, and I’m
talking about a real whopper. Every building was down. People had no
place to live, they were living in the streets, businesses had to close. And
here I was, the only person in town who knew how to build anything. So I
started teaching some of the others and we got to fixing things up. I directed
the whole project, which was called ‘Operation Mend A City.’ Get it? Mend
A City. Menda City. See how that worked? Anyway, soon we had all brand
new buildings and life got back to normal, and the people were so grateful,
they made me mayor and wouldn’t let me leave office for the next twenty
years...” (Grandson thinking to himself, “I get sent to my room for telling
stories like this.”)
Other forms: Mendacious (adj); mendaciously (adv)
Sentence: Sarah grew tired of Paula’s mendacities and began to look for a
more honest employee.
METICULOUS (meh-TIK-yoo-luss) adj — very careful about details
Sounds like: me ticklish
Picture: Man who works in a pillow factory. His job is to stuff the feathers
into the pillows. He has to be careful because he’s very ticklish and if he
doesn’t do his job exactly right, he ends up on the floor, laughing. (“But if I
do a good job,” he says, “I get to take a nap on my coffee break.”)
Other form: Meticulously (adv)
Sentence: Brian was fairly neat and careful about most things, but when it
came to his stamp collection, he was absolutely meticulous.
MINUTE (my-NOOT) adj — very small in size
Sounds like: my newt
Think of: A newt, which is a small salamander. A young boy is holding out
his hand and saying to his older sister, “This is my newt.” The sister,
looking at the tiny spot on his hand, thinks he said “This is minute.”
Other form: Minuteness (noun)
Connect with: Minutiae, which means minor details.
Sentence: A deer tick is minute, but it can cause big problems.
MISCONSTRUE (miss-kun-STROO) verb — misunderstand; interpret
incorrectly
Sounds like: Miss Kahn’s Two
Picture: Woman on the telephone at a restaurant called Miss Kahn’s Two.
She’s speaking to a friend who thought they were supposed to meet at Miss
Kahn’s on the other side of town. Here’s how they each misconstrued what
the other was saying:
Woman 1: “I’m going out for dinner tonight.”
Woman 2: “So am I. Where are you going?”
Woman 1: “I’m going to Miss Kahn’s.”
Woman 2: “Really? I’m going to Miss Kahn’s , too!”
Woman 1: “Oh, okay. I’ll see you there!”
Sentence: It’s easy to misconstrue someone’s meaning in an email, so be
careful.
MITIGATE (MITT-uh-gate) verb — make less severe; mollify
Sounds like: middle gate
Picture: Return to the scene of the man cursing the gate (see CASTIGATE
), but now the middle gate has calmed and soothed the angry man, to the
relief of the first gate.
Sentence: Her soft tone had a mitigating effect, and the argument ended.
MOLLIFY (MOLL-ih-fie) verb — lessen anger; soothe; placate
Sounds like: Molly Fly
Picture: Molly Fly follows the Village Fly around; she soothes the feelings
of the people he has upset (see VILIFY ).
Sentence: Police try to mollify a hostage-taker to avoid violence.
MONOLOGUE (MONN-oh-log) noun — a long, uninterrupted speech
Sounds like: man on a log
Picture: A man standing on a log in the woods. His audience is a group of
rabbits, foxes, mice, deer, raccoons, and birds, and they all look very tired
from listening to his endless monologue: “...And so, my friends, let me
remind you once again that we must be careful not to miss the forest for the
trees...”
Sentence: After I ask how he is, I get comfortable and try to wait out his
long monologue.
MOROSE (mawr-OSE) adj — depressed
Sounds like: more oats
Picture: Depressed horse at a bar. The bartender asks, “More oats, pal?”
Other forms: Moroseness (noun); morosely (adv)
Sentence: I was already morose, and four days of rain made it worse.
MUNDANE (mun-DAYNE) adj — ordinary; earthly (not spiritual);
practical; temporary
Sounds like: Monday
Picture: A weekly meeting of ghosts, gathering to discuss important matters
of eternal and supernatural significance. However, one of the ghosts is only
concerned about what day of the week it is. “Monday. Monday? Is today
Monday? Our meetings are supposed to be held on Mondays. Shouldn’t we
check the calendar?” Another responds, “Clarence, we don’t need to worry
about such mundane matters.”
Sentence: Some theoretical scientists have trouble with mundane things,
such as using a washing machine.
MYRIAD (MEER-ee-id) adj — large number; many
Sounds like: Mary had
Think of: The song, “Mary Had A Little Lamb.” Now imagine that this
lamb grew up and had little lambs of her own. And then they all had little
lambs, and so on, so that in a few years, Mary had thousands of little lambs.
(They all still followed her to school. Luckily, she went to a large
university.)
Sentence: Most stores offer a myriad of choices.
NEFARIOUS (neh-FAIR-ee-uss) adj — extremely evil
Sounds like: no ferry is
Picture: A crazed, wicked modern-day pirate who attacks and plunders ferry
boats filled with rush-hour commuters. “No ferry is safe from me,” he
proclaims.
Sentence: The gangster’s nefarious ways shocked his mother, who thought
he was a dentist.
NEGLIGENT (NEG-lih-jint) adj — careless and possibly causing harm;
neglectful
Sounds like: negligee
Picture: Couple having breakfast. Husband is upset because wife
accidentally baked her negligee into the blueberry pie and served it to their
dinner guests last night. He: “How could you be so careless?” She: “It was a
simple mistake. No harm done.” He: “No harm? Paul and Donna’s little boy
almost choked on that thing.” She: “Well, you’d better be careful when you
eat your oatmeal. I’m missing a pair of stockings.”
Other form: Negligence (noun)
Sentence: The driver was charged with negligence for leaving the scene of
an accident.
NEOPHYTE (NEE-oh-fite) noun — beginner
Sounds like: neo-fighter
Picture: A nervous young boxer who is about to get into the ring for the first
time.
Connect with: Any words that begin with “neo.” They always refer to
something that is new.
Sentence: Val was a neophyte, but learned quickly.
NOCTURNAL (nok-TERN-il) adj — active at night
Sounds like: knock, turn, Al
Picture: The local chapter of the “Midnight Club,” a group of people who
only go out late at night. Al is a new member and doesn’t know how to get
into the club’s secret building. A whispering voice from the intercom
system tries to help him: “Give the official Midnight Club knock on the
door, then turn the knob. Got it? Knock, turn, Al!”
Other form: Nocturnally (adv)
Opposite: Diurnal (adj)
Sentence: Bats are nocturnal, so we rarely see them in daylight.
NOSTALGIC (nuh-STAL-jik) adj — wishing for a return to the way
things used to be; longing for the past; homesick
Sounds like: nose tell cheek
Picture: A face with stylish eyeglasses perched on the nose. The nose looks
over to one cheek and says, “I miss the old glasses.”
Other form: Nostalgia (noun)
Sentence: Seeing the pictures of her parents made Jane nostalgic.
NOVELTY (NAH-vul-tee) noun — something new or unusual
Sounds like: novel tea
Picture: A teacup with a novel as a teabag. Or, novels pouring out of a
teapot’s spout.
Other form: novel (adj)
Sentence: The microwave oven is no longer a novelty.
NUANCE (NOO-onts) noun — slight degree; shade of difference
Sounds like: new ants
Picture: A “new ant” lot. The “vehicles” are ants, the salesman and
customer are anteaters. Salesman explains the subtle ways in which this
year’s model differs from last year’s .
Sentence: The nuances of opera aren’t obvious to most of us.
NULLIFY (NUL-ih-fy) verb — remove or cancel all value or force;
negate
Looks like: null if Y (“null” means “having no value”)
Picture: Nellie has the airplane ticket in her hand as she speaks to an airline
representative. He tells her that the ticket is null and void if the letter Y
appears at the top. She looks, and sure enough, there’s a Y. The ticket’s
value has been nullified.
Other forms: Nullification (noun); null (adj)
Sentence: The touchdown was nullified because the team had too many
players on the field.
NURTURE (NER-cher) verb — provide care and support; nourish;
train or educate
Sounds like: nurse chair
Picture: The maternity ward of a hospital. In one corner of the nursery is the
Nurse Chair. In this large rocker, the nurse sits to feed and talk to the
infants, giving them love and nourishment. Here is also where the new
mothers come to learn from this experienced nurturer about caring for their
babies.
Other forms: Nurturer, nurturance (nouns)
Sentence: A beautiful garden needs to be nurtured with water, fertilizer, and
sunshine.
The following nine words begin with the letters “ob”. Because “ob”
sounds like “Hobb,” the pictures for all of the words will involve Mr.
Hobb.
OBDURATE (OB-der-it) adj — stubborn; unyielding
Sounds like: Hobb door 8
Picture: Hobb and his wife are looking for a friend’s apartment. When Hobb
knocks on door #8, a strange man answers. “I’m sorry,” says Hobb’s wife.
“We must have the wrong apartment.” But when the man closes the door,
Hobb knocks on it again, insisting that it’s where his friend lives. No matter
how many times his wife and the man at the door assure him that it’s the
wrong apartment, Hobb refuses to listen and keeps going back to it.
Other forms: Obdurateness (noun); obdurately (adv)
Sentence: He was obdurate about cleanliness and bathed twice a day.
OBJURGATE (OBB-jur-gate) verb — scold; castigate
Looks like: Hobb jury gate
Picture: Hobb is on jury duty. He has just entered the enclosed area of the
courtroom where the jury sits, but he’s forgotten to close the gate. The
judge scolds him: “Mr. Hobb, will you please close the jury gate! This is the
third time I’ve had to remind you! How are you going to remember the
details of this trial if you can’t remember a simple thing like closing the
gate?”
Other form: Objurgation (noun)
Sentence: The radio talk show host lost all patience and thoroughly
objurgated the rude caller.
OBLITERATE (uh-BLIT-er-ate) verb — remove or destroy completely;
erase
Looks like: Hobb litter ate
Picture: Hobb has just dropped some candy wrappers on the ground. When
he rounds the corner he sees a police officer walking toward him. Hobb is
afraid he’ll get a ticket for littering, so he runs back around the corner and
eats the wrappers! By the time the police officer arrives, the litter has been
obliterated.
Other form: Obliteration (noun)
Sentence: The fire obliterated the building and its contents.
OBSCURE (obb-SKYOOR) adj — hazy; unfamiliar; difficult to
understand
Sounds like: Hobb’s cure
Picture: Patient coming out of Dr. Hobb’s office. The patient’s wife
questions him about the visit:
Wife: What did Dr. Hobb say?
Patient: I’m not sure.
Wife: Well, did he say it was curable?
Patient: I think so, but maybe not. He was pretty vague.
Wife: What’s that prescription for?
Patient: I have no idea. He told me, but I didn’t understand.
Wife: Is this Hobb’s Cure? Send your patient home in a fog?
Patient: It might be. How would I tell?
Other forms: Obscurely (adv); obscurity (noun)
Sentence: Most people who are famous in their day eventually fade into
obscurity.
OBSEQUIOUS (ob-SEEK-wee-us) adj — behaving like a meek,
spineless servant; subservient; sycophantic
Sounds like: Hobb’s sequins
Picture: Hobb’s brother and his wife are visiting for a few days. One night,
Hobb walks into the living room and finds his brother, in his wife’s sequin
dress, standing on a chair. Seeing the surprised expression on Hobb’s face,
the brother explains: “She told me to put it on so she can see how it looks
from a distance. I’d do anything for my wife, and this is such a little favor.
Tomorrow afternoon I’m going to wear it to our favorite restaurant so she
can see how it looks in the light there. She wants me to.”
Other forms: Obsequiousness (noun); obsequiously (adv)
Sentence: A dictator will often surround himself with a large, obsequious
staff.
OBSOLETE (obb-so-LEET) adj — no longer usable; outdated
Sounds like: Hobb so late
Picture: Hobb riding in a horse & buggy, arriving for an important meeting.
His co-workers are annoyed at his lateness, and wonder why he’s driving
such an obsolete vehicle.
Other form: Obsolescence (noun)
Sentence: Manual typewriters would be considered obsolete in most
modern offices.
OBSTINATE (OBB-stin-ett) adj — stubborn; refusing to be persuaded
Sounds like: Hobbs ten-eight
Picture: Hobb playing basketball with some of his friends. Hobb insists the
score is ten-eight, even when assured by his opponents and his own
teammates that the score is twelve-six. “Look,” says Hobb, “I don’t care
that you all think it’s twelve-six, or that we have spectators who agree with
you, or that we have the game on videotape and that it shows the score to be
twelve-six. I still say the score is ten-eight. Why should I change my
mind?”
Other forms: Obstinacy (noun); obstinately (adv)
Sentence: Always obstinate, Sue insisted on going to the movies, even
though she had the flu.
OBTUSE (obb-TOOSE) adj — dull; blunt; unintelligent; lacking
sharpness
Sounds like: Hobb two’s
Picture: Hobb, as a young boy, has written “2 + 2 = 97.”
Other forms: Obtuseness (noun); obtusely (adv)
Sentence: His obtuse argument convinced no one.
OBVIATE (OBB-vee-ate) verb — eliminate the need for something;
make unnecessary
Sounds like: Hobb V-8
Picture: Hobb driving a very large, brand new car (with a V-8 engine) past
his old horse & buggy (see OBSOLETE ). Hobb tells the horse that he
doesn’t need him anymore.
Other form: Obviation (noun)
Sentence: Credit and debit cards have almost obviated the need for cash.
OMINOUS (OMM-in-uss) adj — a sign of something unpleasant that’s
about to happen; inauspicious
Sounds like: “Oh, my noose!”
Picture: A condemned man looking at the noose that will soon be placed
around his neck. Growing extremely nervous, he says, “Oh, my noose!”
Other form: Omen (noun); ominously (adv)
Sentence: Centuries ago, people saw comets, eclipses, and other
astronomical events as ominous signs of future trouble.
ONEROUS (OWN-er-uss) adj — burdensome; oppressive
Sounds like: owner Russ
Picture: A man named Russ is scolding a teenager he’s hired to wash and
wax his expensive car: “Come on!” he yells. “Put some effort into it. Make
that radio antenna shine!” (“Wow,” thinks the exhausted young man. “This
owner, Russ, is really creating a burden for me.”)
Other forms: Onerousness (noun); onerously (adv)
Sentence: Once an idealistic nurse, Pat now viewed the profession as an
onerous way to make a living.
OPAQUE (oh-PAKE) adj — too dark or thick for light to pass through
Sounds like: oh cake
Picture: Right after the wedding reception, the newlyweds run to their car to
leave for their honeymoon. They’re surprised to find no “Just Married” sign
on the back or bells hanging from the mirrors. But when they get into the
car they notice the entire windshield has been covered by a thick, white
substance, which they obviously can’t see through. When they look more
closely they say, “Oh, cake!”
Other form: Opacity (noun)
Sentence: The stain was opaque and hid the grain of the wood.
OPPORTUNIST (opper-TOON-ist) noun — someone who takes
advantage of the situation
Sounds like: opera tunist (the man who tunes the instruments at the opera)
Picture: The lead singer faints and the opera tunist runs in to help: “I can
sing! I’ll take his place!”
Other form: Opportunistic (adj)
Sentence: An opportunistic lawsuit attorney, Tom enjoyed witnessing traffic
accidents.
OPTIMIST (OPP-tih-mist) noun — someone who always believes things
will turn out okay
Looks like: a combination of “optometrist” and “mist”
Picture: An optometrist (eye specialist) leading his family on a hike up the
side of a mountain. The mist is heavy and they can’t see anything, but he
insists they’ll make it: “I’ve developed these special glasses that help you
see through mist. If we all put them on, I know we’ll get to the top in a few
minutes. And you know what else? I think there’ll be a picnic lunch waiting
for us up there. And soft chairs to sit on...”
Other forms: Optimistic (adj); optimistically (adv)
Opposite: Pessimist (noun)
Sentence: You have to be an optimist if you’re going to invest your money
in the stock market.
OPULENCE (OPP-yoo-lence) noun — luxury; wealth; riches
Looks like: opal fence (opal is a precious gem)
Picture: We were visiting cousins in a wealthy part of the state. My brother
and I wandered off and walked toward the lake, where we came upon a
magnificent house in the woods. We saw six Rolls Royces parked in the
long, circular driveway. The shrubs were sculpted to look like dollar signs.
But the most amazing sight of all was the fence. It ran around the entire
property and was made completely of opal. It glistened and shone in the
afternoon sun, the brightest, most luxurious thing we had ever seen.
Other forms: Opulent (adj); opulently (adv)
Sentence: To many people from other nations, an average American home
would seem opulent.
PACIFIST (PASS-uh-fist) noun — person who refuses to fight
Sounds like: pass a fist
Picture: Bully standing with his fist raised, threatening a smaller man. But
the smaller guy refuses to fight and walks past the fist.
Other form: Pacify (verb) Connect with: Pacific, pacifier, peaceful
Sentence: It was hard for Einstein, a pacifist, to support the war against
Germany.
PALTRY (PAWL-tree) adj — worthless; insignificant, petty
Sounds like: poultry
Remember Kate and the eggs truck? (See EXTRICATE .) Okay, so the
driver goes to the back of the truck and rescues Kate. But she’s very angry,
and when he tries to explain that the crazed chicken made him drive off so
wildly, Kate says, “Well, that’s a poultry excuse!” (She means ‘paltry,’ or
worthless, but the driver is too scared to correct her.)
Other form: Paltriness (noun) Sentence: Bill could barely survive on his
paltry wages.
PARAGON (PAHR-a-gon) noun — model of excellence; the best
Sounds like: pair of guns
Picture: The world’s most perfect guns.
Sentence: Fred Astaire was a paragon of dance.